URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/1156-2/
Title: About us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 375
--------------------------------------------------
About us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About us Department Profile The MBA program at NITK is the Institute’s response to the ever-increasing demand for management professionals. This program leads the way in preparing its students to respond to the new challenges by drawing on the varied intellectual resources of the institute and providing a well structured, innovative program in management education. The 2-year program has been developed into a perfect blend of management theory and practice and real world issues and problems in an effort to groom competent managers capable of devising globally optimised solutions. To ensure the quality of students, the entry into the course is through the stringent screening process using CAT/MAT/CMAT or any other national level exam score followed by Group discussion and Personal Interview. Vision and Mission of Department Vision of Department To be a role model in management education and research responsive to global challenges. Mission of Department M1: To impart quality management education. M2: To develop innovative professionals, entrepreneurs and researchers. M3: To generate prime knowledge resources for the growth of industry, society and futuristic knowledge focusing on the socio-economic needs. Message from HoD I am pleased to convey that a batch of highly talented students is ready to take up the challenging responsibilities of the dynamic corporate world. Our students are selected through rigorous process and the curriculum has been designed based on the industry requirements. Besides intensive effort in classroom, students also learn from the participation in various extra- curricular activities namely management fest, participation in business plan, debate, expert talks and community outreach program. The holistic approach of learning of our students make them best suited to work effectively in the demanding environment of corporate. Greetings from NIT Kurukshetra! I am sure that our students would excel in their task and prove asset in any organization. I invite you to be part of this esteemed institution and look forward for a long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationship. Looking forward to meet you at our Campus! With Best Wishes Dr. Neeraj Kaushik Head of Department & Associate Professor Department of Business Administration National Institute of Technology Phone : +91-1744233524 Email : mba@nitkkr.ac.in Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in