URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-scoe/
Title: About SCoE – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 537
--------------------------------------------------
About SCoE – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About SCoE Prof. Bramhajit Singh Head (Siemens Centre of Excellence) NIT Kurukshetra SCOE Notice board Short Term Course at Siemens Centre of Excellence Program Overview ( Industrial Robots 30 hrs) Beginner’s Level Programe Industrial Robotics Click here to check or download SCOE brochure. Internship Projects at Siemens Centre of Excellence for B. Tech. VI semester students of NIT Kurukshetra About Siemens CoE: Siemens Centre of Excellence (SCOE) is a premier arm of National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (Institution of National Importance) which aims to build capacity in Design and Manufacturing with the latest and highly robust technology-driven solutions. The facility is dedicated to performing these solutions-driven engagements for both Industry and academia. The infrastructure available at the Centre can take up real-time projects in the field of design and manufacturing for industrial, service and other sectors. Also, there is opportunity of consulting and research operations which is benefited by latest hardware and software deployed at the Centre. The center team not only includes experienced professionals with practical exposure of dealing with industrial processes and troubleshoot but also is supported by highly experienced academia fraternity of NIT Kurukshetra for adding value to the  deliverable. SCOE is dedicated to the growth of technology driven society with focus on uplifting both regional and national perspectives. Vision To be a globally recognized and leading Centre for skill development, training and translational research for empowering indigenous manufacturing Mission To empower the Indian youth with industry-relevant skills in manufacturing technologies through education and training, securing rewarding employment opportunities. To develop capabilities and build capacity for indigenous manufacturing in collaboration with industry, academia, and government agencies. To provide access to state-of-the-art machinery and software tools for innovative design and developing new manufacturing technologies. Features of SCoE: Research Experience Services & Solutions Skills, Talent & Ability Technology Driven Learning Unlock Innovation Courses offered NX for Design -SKETCHER  (16 Hrs) NX for Design -Essential  (40 Hrs) Industrial Electrical Equipment-Beginner (16 hrs) Industrial Automation-Beginner (16 hrs) Fundamentals of Mechatronics (16 hrs) Introduction to CAE & Simulation (16 hrs) Basics of CNC Programming (16 hrs) Advanced Manufacturing Concepts-Beginner (16 hrs) Anatomy of Industrial Robots (16 hrs) SCoE (Online) Internship Program (4 weeks) SCoE Internship Program (4.5 months) How to Apply: Step 1: Submit “Student Registration form” (Click-on SCoE dropdown menu to access this form) Step 2: SCoE Team will contact you to provide details of the registered course Step 3: Payment link/details will be mailed to you from scoe@nitkkr.ac.in Step 4: Share payment receipt/confirmation to scoe@nitkkr.ac.in with subject line [Re: Payment receipt for enrolment in SCoE program “Program Name”]. Step 5: Confirmation mail is sent with your UID details & Training Schedule. Step 6: Join the Induction Program as per the schedule. LABORATORIES Design and Validation Lab Automation Lab Process Instrumentation Lab Advanced Manufacturing Lab Mechatronics Lab Robotics Lab CNC Machine & Controller Lab Test and Optimization Lab Electrical & Energy Saving Lab Metrology Lab Notification: 18-12-2024:Beginner Level training programe 18-12-2024:Program Overview ( Industrial Robots) For Queries Email: scoe@nitkkr.ac.in TELEPHONE: 01744-233114, 115 Contact: THE HEAD SIEMENS CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE, RISE BUILDING NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA – 136119 Phone: +91 1744 233114, 315, F : +91 1744 233114 WEBSITE: WWW.NITKKR.AC.IN