URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-13/
Title: About us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 458
--------------------------------------------------
About us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About us Department Profile The department started offering MCA program in 2007 with an initial intake of 90 students, which subsequently rose to 96. The department is proud to have a record of almost 100% placement for the last many years. The department started its Ph.D. program in 2010. So far, 13 Ph.Ds have been awarded and 15 PhDs are in progress. Currently, there are four sponsored projects in the department. The faculty of the department has specialized areas for advanced studies and research in the Internet of Things, Big Data Analytics, Cloud & Fog Computing & Security, Cyber-Physical Systems, Network & Information Security, Quantum Computing, Fault detection in Digital Circuits, Knowledge-Based Systems, Semantic Web Technologies, Natural Language Processing, Image Processing, Machine Learning, and Wireless Sensor Networks. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories of all major domains of Computer Science with excellent intranet, servers, hardware and software support. Each year, many students of the department get selected for higher studies in the world’s most reputed Universities and Institutes. The department is equally active in research, with many quality publications each year in IEEE, ScienceDirect, ACM, Springer, Wiley etc. The programme will derive strength from: Expert faculty, and well established administrative, consultancy, training and placement infrastructure of NIT  Kurukshetra. Latest IT industry oriented flexible curriculum. Specialized training from experts from the leading IT industry. Placement assistance from Training and Placement Cell. stringent screening process using CAT/MAT/CMAT or any other national level exam score followed by Group discussion and Personal Interview. Message of HoD On behalf of my colleagues, I am pleased to welcome you to the Department of Computer Applications. We are actively engaged in an exciting and forward looking programme of teaching and research. To provide leadership in the field of computer science through MCA degree and other programs resulting in quality software engineers, educators, administrators and researchers by adopting a carefully balanced curriculum embedded with innovative practices. As the Head of Department (HoD), I wish to take this opportunity that I would try my best to maximize student participation in all institutes activities and would keep the administration transparent. For students I would like to say – “Motivation is the fuel of your vehicle of life”. So, always try to keep yourself highly motivated and put your best in any task which is given to you. So, Come and join us in this exciting journey. If you dream and dare, we promise that the Department will nurture and care for you. globally optimised solutions. To ensure the quality of students, the entry into the course is through the stringent screening process using CAT/MAT/CMAT or any other national level exam score followed by Group discussion and Personal Interview.