URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-doap/
Title: About us: DoAP – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 610
--------------------------------------------------
About us: DoAP – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About us: DoAP National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra is an autonomous institution under the Government of India since July 2003. As per MOA, the institute is  headed by the Director and administered by a Board of Governors. It also has Finance Committee, Building Works Committee and Senate. In the Board, there are representatives from the Government of India, the Government of Haryana, Industries, other institutions and the faculty. Director is the Principal Academic and Executive Officer of the Institute. He is assisted in his day-to-day work by Deans, Registrar, Heads of the different Departments, Professor-in-Charges and other Officers and various committees of the Institute. Formerly, Regional Engineering College ( presently National Institute of Technology)  Kurukshetra was established in the year 1963 as a joint and cooperative enterprise of Govt. of India and the State Government of Haryana to serve the State of Haryana and the rest of the country for imparting technical training to youth and for fostering national integration vide letter No. 16-4/60-T.5, dated the 26th February, 1962 from the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs, New Delhi.. Its objective was to provide instructions and research facilities in various disciplines of engineering and technology and the advancement of learning and dissemination of knowledge in each such discipline. During the period 1963 to 2001, there have been considerable achievements in the academic as well as development areas. The Govt. of India, Ministry of Human Resource Development, New Delhi has upgraded the REC Kurukshetra to National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra with the status of “Deemed to be University” w.e.f. 26.6.2002 vide letter No. F.9-10/2002-U.3 dated 26.6.2002. The NIT Kurukshetra was registered under the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 on 9th April, 2003. The new Memorandum of Association (MOA) was formulated under the guidance of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). Campus The institute campus, spreading over an area of 300acres, is imaginatively laid down on a picturesque landscape. It presents a spectacle of harmony in architecture and natural beauty. The campus has been organised into three functional sectors: Hostels for the students Academic Area Residential sector for the staff Hostels and students are located towards Eastern side of the campus in the form of cluster. Multi-storey buildings of hostels provide comfortable accommodation and pleasing environment to the students. Residential sector for staff is located towards Western side. Academic area is located between the two residential sectors in order to reduce walking distance. A full-fledged health centre manned by qualified doctors, a post office, and a branch of the State Bank of India are located at convenient points on the campus. Department of Architecture and Planning The Department of Architecture and Planning of NIT Kurukshetra has started functioning from the year 2024-25 with an intake of 40, admitting students to B. Arch. Five-year full-time degree program approved by the Council of Architecture (COA), New Delhi. The institute is committed to nurture individual creativity and talent in order to prepare them as core professionals in the field of architecture and planning. A conducive academic environment and exposure to industry and practical in allied and core subject is an essential requirement with target to achieve excellence. Vision and Mission of Department Vision of Department To be a role-model in architecture education providing holistic development of the budding architects. Mission of Department M1:     To foster creativity and innovation along with sustainable solutions. M2:     To undertake research that generates cutting-edge technology and futuristic knowledge, focusing on socio-economic needs. M3:     To cultivate architects with global needs through ethical practice, teamwork and collaborative solutions for a resilient built environment.