URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 642
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us Department Profile The department started offering B.Tech. Programme in Computer Engineering in 1987 with an initial intake of 30 students, which was subsequently raised to 210. The department also started B.Tech programme in Information Technology (IT) in 2006 with the present intake of 140 students. Department of Computer Engineering is offering a new undergraduate program from the 2023-24 academic session in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning (AI & ML) and 2024-25 with an intake of 60. The curriculum of the B.Tech. program in AI&ML emphasizes the foundations of computational mathematics as well as key areas of computer science, while also incorporating fundamental concepts and the latest advancements in artificial intelligence, data science and machine learning. By offering core courses in computer science and engineering, the program equips students with the necessary skills to navigate the dynamic landscape of IT requirements preparing for the future. The department is proud to have a record of almost 100% placement for last 10 years. The department also offers two M.Tech. programs, one in Computer Engineering and other in Cyber Security. Department started Ph.D. program in 2002. So far 56 Ph.D.s have been awarded and 31 PhDs are in progress. The faculty of the department have specialized areas for advanced studies and research in Distributed Computing, Software Engineering, Computer Networks, Database and Data Mining, Natural Language Processing, Information and Cyber Security, Image Processing, etc. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories of all major domains of Computer Engineering and Information Technology with excellent Intranet, servers, hardware and software support. Each year, many students of the department get selected for higher studies in world’s most reputed Universities and Institutes. The department is equally active in research with many quality publications each year in IEEE, Science direct, ACM, Springer, Wiley etc. For the overall development we also cover the other aspects of life like Health management, moral and ethical development of the students. The department’s UG programs, B. Tech (Computer Enggg) & BTech (Information Technology), are NBA Accredited from the Academic Year up to 2022-23. Vision and Mission of Department Vision of Department To address societal needs and global industry challenges in the field of Computer and IT with State-of-the-art education & research. Mission of Department M1: To create a platform for education, research, and development by providing sound theoretical knowledge & practical skills in Computer Engg & Information Technology. M2: To produce motivated professional technocrats capable of generating solutions for industry & society. M3: To develop the ability to work ethically at the individual and team levels and be responsive towards socio-economic needs. Message from HoD The growth of the nation largely depends on its youth, their attitude and creativity. Institutes like NIT, Kurukshetra are nurtured by the Government to create innovative technocrats who can contribute significantly towards the upliftment of the people of the country.  We, at the Computer Engineering Department are committed to fulfilling this dream of the country by producing world-class Computer and IT Professionals. Our department has created a platform to disseminate strong fundamentals-based technical education. We strive to produce computer engineers which are suitable for industry as well as society. Due to our excellent placement and research environment, we are able to attract some of the best-talented students to the department. As HOD of this department, I endeavour to transform them into creators of technology with good human values and commitment to our great nation.  I request all my faculty members, staff and students to work tirelessly towards developing IT solutions which are useful for the socio-economic growth of the nation. With Best Wishes Professor A K Singh Head of Department & Professor Department of Computer Engg National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Phone : +91-1744233479 Email : coengg@nitkkr.ac.in Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in