URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-3/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 714
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us Department Profile The branch of Electronics and Communication Engineering was started in 1971 under the aegis of the Electrical Engineering Department. The “Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering” came into existence in the year 1973. In 1987, the Computer Engineering branch was also started and the department was renamed “Electronics, Communication and Computer Engineering”. In 2003, the department was again renamed “Electronics and Communication Engineering” because of the inception of the “Computer Engineering Department” separately. The Department is well-equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories and research facilities in almost all the domains of ECE engineering. Currently, the Department is offering B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. Courses. The Ph.D. course is offered in various specializations like Wireless Communication, Optical Communication, MIMO systems, Photonics Crystal Fiber Sensors, Security, Signal Processing, Speech Processing, VLSI, Embedded Systems etc. The Department’s UG program, B. Tech ECE, is NBA-accredited for six years, i .e. from Academic Year 2017-18 to 2022-23 The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering is offering a new undergraduate program in Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) from AY 2023–24: The curriculum of B. Tech program in IIoT will focus on the technologies used for connected machines, devices, sensors, actuators, etc. in industrial applications like agriculture, healthcare, smart manufacturing, intelligent logistics etc. B.Tech Program in Microelectronics and VLSI Engineering at NIT Kurukshetra: The semiconductor industry, which relies heavily on microelectronics and VLSI design forms the technological backbone of modern society, enabling innovation, connectivity, efficiency, and progress across diverse industries. Their impact is pervasive, influencing economic growth, technological advancement, and societal development worldwide. It is known for its stability and resilience, even during economic downturns, providing graduates with a sense of job security. VLSI design is a rapidly evolving field with high demand in industries such as semiconductor manufacturing, telecommunications, consumer electronics, and automotive electronics. A new B. Tech program Microelectronics and VLSI Engineering at NIT Kurukshetra aims to provide specialized knowledge and skills in designing integrated circuits, which are crucial components of modern electronics. This includes learning about semiconductor physics, digital and analog circuit design, layout techniques, and fabrication processes. The curriculum is designed to equip the students with industrial knowledge and skills in the domain so that they are ready to face the industry Successfully completing this UG program will open up various job opportunities as a VLSI engineer, ASIC (Application-Specific Integrated Circuit) designer, FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) engineer, verification engineer, and many more similar opportunities for career growth. For those interested in research, it will serve as a foundation for further studies and research in areas like nanotechnology, embedded systems, and system-on-chip (SoC) design. Practical exposure and skills gained from lab sessions, projects, internships will help students apply theoretical knowledge to enhance their innovative skills that will directly be applicable in designing more efficient, intelligent and powerful integrated circuits, contributing to the development of smarter devices and systems. NIT Kurukshetra has MoU with Semiconductor Laboratory Mohali, an autonomous body under Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India. The MeitY has given electronic design automation (EDA) tools from Siemens EDA, Synopsys and Cadence to NIT Kurukshetra for manpower and project development activities. Message from HoD Welcome to the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering NIT Kurukshetra! Our Department’s vision is to impart state-of-the-art Electronics and Communication Engineering education and research responsive to global challenges. The faculty and staff is dedicated to educating the next generation of Electronics and Communication Engineering, and to conducting research on the next generation of technology. We are teaching students through our continuously six-year NBA-accredited Electronics and Communication Engineering under B. Tech degree program and three-year NBA-accredited Communication Systems under M.Tech degree program. Our M. Tech. program is research oriented and leads toward the degree of master of technology in communication systems. Research facilities are available in communication engineering, VLSI design and embedded systems & internet-of-things. Through these core research areas, our faculty is expanding the base of knowledge through numerous referred publications. Our B. Tech. and M. Tech. students are given exposure to industry-based projects through internships. Also, the students have the opportunity to get training on state-of-the-art platforms through Atal incubation centre and Siemens centre of excellence. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in