URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-7/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 550
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us Department Profile The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, one of the thirteen teaching Departments of the Institute, equips students with the knowledge and social skills that help them successfully manage people and technology. The Department is continuously involved in expanding the teaching-learning process to integrate humanistic values and social concerns with technical education. The Department also provides doctoral (Ph.D.) facilities in the areas of English, Economics, Psychology and Management. Apart from teaching and research, the Department has been actively involved in organizing various programs like seminars, conferences, workshops, etc. Vision and Mission of Department Vision of the Department To Be a Role Model in imparting Education and Research in the fields of Social Sciences responsive to Global Challenges and to be recognized among premier centres of advanced studies in Humanities and Social Sciences. Mission of the Department To impart holistic, interdisciplinary and quality education in Humanities and Social Sciences that inculcates human values among engineers, develops innovative & competent engineers, socially responsive citizens and to undertake research that generates prime knowledge resources for the growth of industry & society and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs. Message from HoD I take pride in welcoming you to the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences. The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, one of the thirteen teaching Departments of the Institute, was established in 1965. The Department equips students with the knowledge and social skills that help them successfully manage people and technology. The Department is continuously involved in expanding the teaching-learning process to integrate humanistic values and social concerns with technical education. The Department offers a wide range of courses at the undergraduate level and also runs PhD Program in the Disciplines of English, Economics, Psychology and Management. Through imparting knowledge and awareness of humanistic studies to the students of technology, the department aims to enhance their creativity and critical thinking, thereby enabling them: To become well-rounded individuals, achieving excellence in professional and personal lives; To understand the interdependent nature of the world and the interrelationships within and between the natural environment, human communities and economies; To become conscious of their responsibilities, participate and contribute to society; To understand the need to make informed decisions, upholding ethical considerations; To understand the implications of decisions/innovations for individuals, society, economy and the environment. Apart from teaching and research, the Department has been actively involved in organizing various programs like Seminars, Conferences, Workshops, Short-term Training Program (STPs) etc. The Department contributes to expanding the frontiers of knowledge in Humanities and Social Sciences through regularly organizing a range of scholarly activities, drawing on the multiple disciplines, to enrich the entire spectrum of students and faculty. The faculty of the Department has wide experience in teaching and research and in communicating with students of diverse background and of widely differing abilities. The students understand that today’s challenges are global and interdisciplinary; and they are required to reflect more social responsibility, flexibility, resourcefulness and creativity. The Department would seek to bridge the disciplinary boundaries that exist between various Engineering and Social Science streams and develop a cross-disciplinary research and teaching agenda that is forward looking and cutting edge in technology education. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in