URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-8/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 1583
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us School Profile The department started offering M.Tech. Programme in VLSI Design and Embedded System Design 2012 with initial intake of 30 and 20 students in VLSI Design and Embedded System Design respectively. The School is proud to have a record good placement for last 2 years. School started Ph.D. program in 2016. So far 1Ph.D. have been awarded and 4 PhDs are in progress. Currently there are five SMDP-C2SD project undergoing in the School. Faculty of the school have specialized areas for advanced studies and research in ……………………………………… The school is well equipped VLSI and Embedded laboratories of all major with excellent intranet, servers, tools, kits, hardware, and software support. Each year, many students of the school get selected for higher studies in world’s most reputed Universities and Institutes. The school is equally active in research with many quality publications each year in IEEE, Science direct, ACM, Springer, Wiley etc. For the overall development we also cover the other aspects of life like Health management, moral and ethical development of the students. Message from Coordinator The growth of the nation largely depends on its youth, their attitude and creativity. Institutes like NIT, Kurukshetra are nurtured by the Government to create innovative technocrats who can contribute significantly towards upliftment of the people of the country. We, at School of VLSI Design and Embedded System are committed to fulfill this dream of the country by producing world class Electronics, VLSI & Embedded Professionals. Our School has created a platform to disseminate strong fundamentals based technical education. We strive to produce Electronics engineers which are suitable for industry as well as society. Due to our excellent placement and research environment, we are able to attract some of the best talented students to the School. As Coordinator of this School, I endeavor to transform them into creators of technology with good human values & commitment to our great nation. I request all my faculty members, staff and students to work tirelessly towards developing VLSI & Embedded solutions which are useful for socio-economic growth of the nation. More about School: School of VLSI Design and Embedded system was established in Year 2011. The school offers two M.Tech. programs and Ph.D. in the area of VLSI Design and Embedded System Design. School of VLSI Design and Embedded Systems has MoU with Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL); an autonomous body under Department of Space, Government of India. Under the MoU two ICs have already been fabricated and two more fabrications are in progress. SMDP projects funded by Meity, Government of India has been executing since 2007. Currently we are having third phase of SMDP projects named as SMDP-C2SD. Under this project, professional VLSI design lab has been established. Courses Offered Intake M. Tech. in VLSI Design 32+05* M. Tech. in Embedded System Design 20+05* Ph.D. in various specializations like Embedded System Design Applications, Disease Diagnosis in Human beings using Voice Profiling, Low power VLSI design, Carbon Nanotubes and other Nanostructures, CNTFETs, Graphene FETs, Spintronics, SPINFETs, Magnetic Tunnel Junctions, Microelectronics and VLSI Design, Device modelling, Device circuit co-design in digital/analog domain. Research and Projects: Research is carried out in the following major research areas in School “Embedded System Design Applications, Disease Diagnosis in Human beings using Voice Profiling, Low power VLSI design, Carbon Nanotubes and other Nanostructures, CNTFETs, Graphene FETs, Spintronics, SPINFETs, Magnetic Tunnel Junctions, Microelectronics and VLSI Design, Device modelling, Device circuit co-design in digital/analog domain.” Projects: Following are the detail of the projects undertaken by the faculty members of ECE department. Sr. No. Name of PI/Co-PI Title of the project Funding Agency Period Amount (?) Status 1 Dr. R K Sharma/Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary SMDP-C2SD Ministry of Information technology, Government of India 5 years 94.09 Lakhs On-going Ph.D. Program: The school welcomes Ph.D. aspirants to pursue their Ph.D. research. The School offers full-time and part-time Ph.D. program in various areas under VLSI and Embedded System designs. The eligible applicants are required to appear in a written test conducted by Department Research Committee (DRC). Based on the performance in the written test, DRC shortlists candidates for interview as per the number of vacant slots available in the school. The school offers Ph.D. program in the following research areas: “Embedded System Design Applications, Disease Diagnosis in Human beings using Voice Profiling, Low power VLSI design, Carbon Nanotubes and other Nanostructures, CNTFETs, Graphene FETs, Spintronics, SPINFETs, Magnetic Tunnel Junctions, Microelectronics and VLSI Design, Device modelling, Device circuit co-design in digital/analog domain.” The list of faculty members with their respective research area(s) are given below: Sr. No. Name of the faculty Research Area(s) 1 Dr. R K Sharma, Professor Embedded System Design Applications, Low Power Digital IC Design, and Disease Diagnosis in Human beings using Voice Profiling. 2 Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary,Assistant Professor Carbon Nanotubes and other Nanostructures, CNTFETs, Graphene FETs, Spintronics, Magnetic Tunnel Junctions, Device circuit co-design in digital/analog domain. Following research scholars are registered for Ph.D. program in the school. Sr. No. Name of Scholar Reg. No. Area of research Guide/co-guide Full Time / Part Time Status 1 Mr. Shubham Tayal 6160018 Low Power VLSI Design Dr. Ashutosh Nandi Full Time Completed 2 Mr. Vikas Mittal 6160015 VLSI Design Prof. R.K. Sharma Part time On-going 3 Mr. Rahul Shandilya 6180002 VLSI Design Prof. R.K. Sharma Part time On-going 4 Mr. Prakash Chandra Joshi 61900028 Nano electornic Devices Prof. R.K. Sharma Part time On-going 5 Mr. Mohit 6180016 Carbon Nanotubes issues and other nanostructures Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary Part time On-going 6 Ms. Pallavie Tyagi 6180065 Magnetic Quantum Dot Cellular Automata Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary Part time On-going 7 Ms. Sapna Singh 61900042 Nano-Optoelectronics Properties of Nanostructures and Nanomaterials Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary Full Time On-going 8 Ms. Arashpreet Kaur 61900014 Design and study of novel steep subthreshold swing devices and their applications Dr. Gaurav Saini Full Time On-going 9 Ms. Priyanka Singh 61900138 Nanoscale semiconductor device modelling and simulation for future trends Dr. Sudakar Singh Chauhan Part time On-going 10 Mr. Vineet Jaiswal 62000027 Multigate device modelling Dr. Trailokya Nath Sasamal Full Time On-going 11 Ms. Mayurika Saxena 62000042 Low Power VLSI Design Dr. Gaurav Verma (S)/ Dr. Sudakar Singh Chauhan (CS) Part Time On-going 12 Mr. Jaya Nidhi Vashishtha 62000045 VLSI Design Dr. Ashutosh Nandi Part Time On-going Laboratory and Research Facilities: School has several state-of-the-art curriculum laboratories, which support PG students in conducting experiments related to their lab courses and project work. Some of the lab facilities are also being used by faculty members and research scholars for research activities. Following are the list of Laboratories: Sr. No. Name of the Laboratory Prof. In charge 1 VLSI Design Lab Dr. Gaurav Saini, Dr. Ashish Jasuja 2 Embedded system Lab Dr. R.K. Sharma, Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary School has adequate state-of-the-art research facilities in the area of VLSI and Embedded System design. There are a variety of professional EDA/TCAD tools of Synopsys, Cadence, Mentor Graphics and Xilinx. Further school also have MATLAB, LabVIEW and its Supported hardware, FPGA boards of Xilinx-Zynq, Artix, VIRTEX, SPARTAN Series and Intel FPGA Series, Freescale and Atmel microcontroller boards, Computerized Speech Lab (KayPENTAX™).Following are the list of labs and their resources available in School of VLSI Design & Embedded Systems A. VLSI Design Lab: 1 EDA/TCAD Tools Cadence full Design FlowSynopsys Full Design FlowMentor Graphics Full Design FlowSynopsys TCAD 2D/3D 2 IC Fabrication FacilityProvided by SCL Mohali for NIT Kurukshetra B. Embedded System Lab: 1 Microcontroller Boards (Atmel, Freescale, ARM) 2 FPGA Boards Xilinx FPGA Boards (Spartan – 3E, Virtex –II, VII series) Intel FPGA Boards 3 Sensors and Transducers Modules 4 National Instrumentsmy RIO-1900 Boards (with wifi) myRIO kit Sensorsmy RIO Mechatronics kitmyDAQ Boards Pitsco myTemp Kit iWorx Chemistry kits & sensor myProto Quantity Breadboard Emona myDSP Amplifier Kit Vernier BioInstrumentation Sensor Kit 5 Softwares Xilinx ISE Design SuiteXilinx Vivado Xilinx Vivado- HLS Xilinx SDK Kit Quartus (Intel FPGA) PINGALAB (NUMERICAL COMPUTATION SOFTWARE) LabVIEW MATLAB 6 CSL (Computerized Speech Lab-KayPENTAX) Hardware Facilities – Servers/Workstations: HCL Workstation (AMD 64-Bit Opteron Processor) – 03 Nos. HP Z440 Workstation (Intel Xeon E5-1607, 64-Bit~3GHz,)-  05 Nos. Desktop Computers: Lenovo ThinkCentre ( Intel Core i7 64-Bit processor) – 45 Nos. Printers: – 03 Nos. Photocopies Machine:- 01 Nos. Projectors:  – 02 Nos. (with projection screen) Industrial Collaboration: School of VLSI Design and Embedded Systems has signed MoU with the leading R&D laboratory/industries to promote collaborative research in multidisciplinary areas. Present, school has signed two MoU with the following Laboratory/company: Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL); an autonomous body under Department of Space, Government of India. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Achievements of the School – Successfully fabricated two design namely: (i) 8-bit Vedic Multiplier using CMOS and (ii) 8-bit level crossing Analog to Digital converter; at SCL Mohali. Dr. Sudhanshu Chaudhary has received Albert Nelson Marquis Lifetime Achievement Award 2017. This Award is an honor reserved for biographees, who have demonstrated leadership, excellence and longevity within their respective industries and professions. One of the highest distinctions available through Marquis Who’s Who, the award entitles biographees to a listing on the Lifetime Achievers website alongside fellow honorees, as well as a professional announcement detailing induction. Research scholars and faculty members of school published almost 40 research papers in SCI indexed International Journals and more than 100 papers in International/National Conferences in last three Years. Other facility: School is also equipped with a small library having the selective reference books in the area of VLSI Design and Embedded System Design. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in