URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-elec/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 447
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us Department Profile The Department of Electrical Engineering is one of the largest departments in NIT Kurukshetra, and has a distinguished faculty, holding Ph.D. Degrees from renowned institutes in India. The Primary objective of the department is to impart quality education and training at the undergraduate, postgraduate and research levels in the areas of Electrical Engineering. The Department has very good laboratories with some of the state of art equipment for better practical understanding of the students. The Department also has the right mixture of young and senior faculty members and all of us are working hand in hand for the overall benefit of the Department and the society. Message from HoD It is my great pleasure to welcome you to the Electrical Engineering Department at NIT Kurukshetra. The Electrical Engineering Department being one of the oldest Department of the Institute is growing constantly due to the success of its graduates as highly skilled and professional engineering technologists. We pride in having the well qualified faculty and well groomed multi-dimensional students driven by self-motivation and quest to continuously improve and aspiring for higher studies at top universities around the world. At present, the department offers an undergraduate programme, B. Tech (Electrical Engineering), three M. Tech. Programs in Control Systems, Power Systems and Power Electronics and Drives and PhD programme in Electrical Engineering specializations. The Electrical Engineering programs are designed to reflect the diverse needs of our students, industry, and the society with academic rigor. We strive to nurture graduates who are ready to accept the changing needs of the society and industry. Since future is of smart energy management system, the Electrical Engineering Department will continue to fulfill its aim to contribute to the teaching and learning, research and with its commitment to achieve excellence. I invite you to explore our department webpages and discover the ample opportunities of academic excellence at our department as a first choice in electrical engineering education. I believe career opportunities in Electrical Engineering are endless as graduates can work anywhere in government agencies, Power industries, Government PSUs, R&D Units, IT industries, Electricity Boards/Utility companies and startup to big tech firms. With the world’s focus on smart grid technologies having penetration of renewable energy sources as future high tech power system, the degree programs offered at department of electrical engineering will prepare students for a bright future in the fast emerging areas of engineering and research. On behalf of the Electrical Engineering department, I welcome our new and current students and visitors, and wish them a bright future a-head. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in