URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-me/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 545
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us Department Profile The Department of Mechanical Engineering started its illustrious journey in 1963. It can boast of one of the most talented faculty among the engineering institutes. There are various research and development projects in Mechanical Engineering that are strongly supported by the institute. Since the inception of the department, it has been the source of attraction for meritorious UG, PG and PhD students. The departmental labs are equipped with a wide range of machines, tools and equipment to broaden the practical knowledge of students. It also incorporates labs to carry out design, simulation and development on latest computer systems. The department lays strong emphasis on helping students acquire practical knowledge. It has played a key role in motivating and assisting the students to freely explore the departmental resources and carry out academic activities. Message from HoD Welcome to the Department of Mechanical Engineering at NIT, Kurukshetra. It began its journey in the year 1963. Over the last five decades, we have grown our expertise and competence in the core Mechanical Engineering curriculum and research. We have strong undergraduate programs in mechanical engineering including a B. Tech. (Production &Industrial Engineering) program. At the postgraduate level, we offer M. Tech program in three specializations- Thermal, Industrial & Production, Design, and PhD degrees. Several sponsored candidates from industries and research laboratories carry out their postgraduate and doctoral studies in our department. The programs are designed to prepare our graduates for a rapidly changing world and to go well beyond being significant contributors. We have state of the art research facilities to support our academic programs and research. Our faculties are renowned leaders in their fields, and our students-from undergraduates, postgraduates to doctoral scholars-have the opportunity to work with them one-on-one on problems defining the state-of-the art. Our approach is highly interdisciplinary and collaborative, and we stress the exploration of innovative and even unconventional ideas. Our goal for undergraduate students is to give them a high-quality engineering education that includes hands-on experience. Each of our faculty members is ready and willing to work in their research specialty with capable students on individual projects. We strive to ensure that all our undergraduate students have a strong education with teaming and leadership skills, involvement in student activities, and the practical background of internship experience. We believe that emphasizing these areas will make our students well qualified to take leadership roles in the future. The UG students have been working at Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) club for more than one decade and have participated in number of national and international events bringing applauds to the department. Our master’s and doctoral students give numerous technical presentations in courses and on their research. These students are also expected to publish their research in relevant peer reviewed engineering journals. The course contents are periodically updated for introducing new scientific and technological developments. Finally, it is my pleasure to work with such highly distinguished staff and to serve our inquisitive and passionate student body in achieving our department mission and vision. Best wishes Dr. Hari SinghProfessor & HeadDepartment of Mechanical EngineeringNational Institute of TechnologyKurukshetra-136118, Haryana, INDIAPhone : 01744-233556/447E-mail : hodmechanical@nitkkr.ac.in Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in