URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/about-us-2/
Title: About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 746
--------------------------------------------------
About Us – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra About Us Department Profile The Department of Civil Engineering of National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (Formerly Regional Engineering College, Haryana) started functioning from the year 1963, when the first batch of students were admitted to the five year B.Sc. Engineering Degree Course. In 1966, M.Sc. Engineering Degree Courses in the specializations of Structural Engineering and Constructional Techniques; and Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering were started. The first registration for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Civil Engineering was done in 1967.  The Institute switched over to four year B Tech Degree Programme from 1985. The M Sc Engineering programs were also renamed as M.Tech programs. In 1989, M. Tech Degree Course in Water Resources Engineering was started. Three Year Special Degree Course, “Bachelor of Engineering” for In-Service field engineers holding Diploma in Engineering was introduced from the Session 1982-83. The course was fully funded by Govt. of Haryana. The Govt. of Haryana has discontinued this course w.e.f. 2001-02. Master of Technology in the specializations, Transportation Engineering and Environmental Engineering were started from year 2005. Vision and Mission of Department Vision of Department To be a role-model in civil engineering education and research responsive to global challenges. Mission of Department M1: To impact quality civil engineering education that develops innovative professionals an entrepreneurs. M2: To undertake research that generates cutting-edge technology and futuristic knowledge, focusing in the socio-economic needs. M3: To prepare professionals with emphasis on leadership, team work and ethical conduct. Message from HoD Welcome to the Department of Civil Engineering at NIT Kurukshetra, The Department was established in 1963 and has since continually upgraded itself in terms of academic programs and research infrastructure. The Department offers a UG Program in B.Tech (Civil Engineering) and five PG Programs in M.Tech. (Civil Engineering) in Structural Engineering, Water Resources, Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering, Transportation Engineering and Environment Engineering. It also offers PhD programs in all the specialisations. The department has well qualified and highly experienced faculty with all regular faculty possessing PhD. The teaching learning is carried out using latest techniques of pedagogy. It is endeavoured to inculcate in the students adequate level of knowledge, skill and attitude through well framed and regularly upgraded scheme and syllabi of various programs & their courses with outcome based education system. The students of VI sem of B.Tech Program undergo full semester Industry Internship Training. Similarly, PG students can undertake industry internship in place of their dissertation. The students also participate in various co-curricular and extra-curricular activities. The department has very good research facilities in well equipped, state-of-the art labs and computational facilities. The research outcome of the Department in terms of PhD / M.Tech produced, publication of quality research papers, citations, books and book chapters is very impressive. The department also has to its credit as many as 12 patents with some more in the pipeline for award. Several sponsored R&D projects worth crore of rupees always keep continuing in the department. The Department offers consultancy to various reputed private / govt sector agencies in the areas of design, material testing, field investigations and quality control jobs etc across its all specialisations. The department helps generate consultancy revenue of more than Rs. 7.0 crore per annum for the Institute. The faculty of the department also contributes to the administration of the Institute. Most of the positions in the Institute like Officiating Director, Deans, Registrar, Chief Warden, President Students Clubs and Professor In-charges of various activities are being held / have been held by the faculty of the Department. The faculty of the department is also engaged in various outreach activities.  The graduates of the UG program also get good placement with average placement of more than 80% of the eligible students. Many of the students opt for PG programs in engineering and business management, and some also turn out to be good entrepreneurs. Our graduates and postgraduates have been selected by leading national and multinational firms and research / academic institutes. The department also boasts of some very well placed and reputed alumni. We, here in the Department strive hard to push forward the limits in the field of Civil Engineering, and we aim to produce graduates who are well prepared for careers within and beyond Civil Engineering. Best wishes Prof. S.M. GuptaProfessor & HeadCivil Engineering DepartmentNational Institute of TechnologyKurukshetra-136118, Haryana, IndiaPhone : 01744-233334E-mail : hodcednitk@gmail.com Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in