URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/account-section/
Title: Account Section – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 493
--------------------------------------------------
Account Section – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Account Section NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA- 136 119 ACCOUNTS SECTION Accounts section (also known as Finance Section), is a fundamental part of any Institute and indeed functions as the institute’s central financial hub, responsible for managing the Institute’s financial transactions and records. This section handles everything from day-to-day bookkeeping to preparing financial statements, ensuring accuracy, transparency and prompt service. It plays a vital role in providing finance related information for decision-making and performance evaluation by adopting a collaborative and responsive approach towards the stakeholders of the Institute. The Accounts Section is well-structured, computerized and compliant with government financial norms which proactively supports students with fee-related concerns, scholarship processing, reimbursements, and financial clearances. Further, the section handles financial matters related to fellowships, fee waivers, and other financial aid programs. It also manages student accounts for various purposes, like accessing institute resources and applying for financial assistance. Some of the major functions of the Accounts Section are: – Manages fee collection and Coordinates scholarship and fee-concession Handles no-dues certificates, travel allowances, GPF advances, and similar administrative/financial processes. Preparation and processing of monthly salary, arrears, leave encashment Pre-audit review of all submitted bills (honorarium, medical reimbursement ) to ensure adherence to financial rules and budget provision. Coordination with banking partners for smooth functioning of financial Manages the Treasury Single Account (TSA) on Public Financial Management System (PFMS) for optimum utilisation of GiA received from the Ministry. Works related to Student Activity Fee (SAF) such as Convocation Formulation/implementation of Budget for each financial Preparation and reporting of financial statements (like balance sheets and income statements) according to Ministry of Education guidelines. Statutory compliances like TDS, GST, Income Tax returns Acts as a liaison with the Audit Authorities for conduction of various types of Audit applicable to the Central Autonomous Bodies. Matters related to Finance Committee and accounting related to consultancy works etc. Accounting and budgeting management with regard to funded research projects such as fund management, utilization certificates etc. In a nutshell, it can be said that the Accounts Section at NIT Kurukshetra serves as the financial backbone of the Institute, and it stands ready to assist students and staff with any monetary and accounting-related needs as and when required. For any financial assistance – one can confidently approach infoaccounts@nitkkr.ac.in (for students only) and; accounts@nitkkr.ac.in Via phone or in person during office hours. If the issue remains unresolved after several attempts through above communications, please feel free to contact us at the following address/number/email: – S.No. Name Designation Contact Details Office E-mail ID 1. Dr. Chetti Prabhakar Faculty Incharge 01744-233-241                        chetti@nitkkr.ac.in 2. Mohd. Afroz Assistant Registrar 01744-233-399                      mafroz@nitkkr.ac.in 3. Mr. Chand Singh Superintendent 01744-233-396                     chand@nitkkr.ac.in 4. Ms. Priya 01744-233-182                     priya@nitkkr.ac.in 5. Ms. Amarpreet Kaur Senior Assistant 01744-233-181          sandhu.amar@nitkkr.ac.in 6. Mr. B.B. Gautam 01744-233-217              bbgautam@nitkkr.ac.in 7. Mr. Harsh Gaba Stenographer 01744-233-182             harshgaba@nitkkr.ac.in 8. Mr. Vishesh Junior Assistant 01744-233-182  visheshyadav1995@nitkkr.ac.in Address National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in