URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/centre-of-computing-networking/
Title: Centre of Computing & Networking – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 444
--------------------------------------------------
Centre of Computing & Networking – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Centre of Computing & Networking About Us: The Centre of Computing and Networking was established in 1997 as a project funded by MHRD. It is a central facility for the institute, connecting all the buildings, departments, hostels, and residential areas through the Local Area Network (LAN). The Centre aims to integrate networking and computing facilities for service to the students, scholars, faculty and community with an effort to automate institute offices and sections. The CCN maintains Campus Wide Network with more than 7000 nodes with state-of-the-art networking, infrastructure. It also hosts institute website. Centre of Computing and Networking (CCN) is the central computing and networking facility of the Institute, entrusted with the following responsibilities: Development of the computing and networking infrastructure Maintaining and updating the Institute’s website E-mail services for the students, faculty and staff Extending IT infrastructure for online tests for placement of the students Development and operation of online applications CCN has equipped with Super computer Param Shavak from CDAC. The students and faculty are utilizing this facility for high end computing. Working Hours: 9:00 AM to 12:00 Mid Night. CCN remains closed National holidays. Facilities Networking Facilities Campus wide LAN on OFC backbone supported by two leased lines for internet access 1 Gbps from RailTel Corporation of India Ltd 1.5 Gbps M/s Vodaphone Ltd Network Upgraded from (1G to 10G) Structured networking supporting 7000 nodes Wi-Fi Networking with the support of 3000 concurrent users Bio-Metric Attendance System (BAS) is being looking after by CCN. Installed HoneyPot Sensor (Raspberry Pi) under the project ‘’ Scalable Attack Data Capture and Analysis framework for CTI Generation ‘’ by C-DAC, Mohali Computing Facilities Hardware Resources 1. Servers 05 2. Desktop PCs (i7) 160 3. Video Conferencing device(s) 05 4. Outdoor LED Panels installed at four prime locations in the campus. 5. NEXT GENERTION FIREWALL FORTINET (FortiGate 2000E) Software Packages Endpoint Security Word-processing: MS office Professional 2016 EIGAP Plus (50 User-5 year) including ENVI Single Use Software (ESRI India Technologies Ltd.) FE Analysis Engineering/Multi-Physics Software Solution. MATLAB 2021 Campus Wide Important Annexure(s) Internet related complaint submission to CCN (You need to login to your nitkkr email ID for accessing the above Google form) Click here to read the NIT Kurukshetra IT Infrastructure Usage Policy NIT KKR domain email account creation form: for Students; and for Faculty Application Form for Access High-Performance Computer (HPC) Personals & Staff Administrative and Technical Staff Name Prof. in-Charge Dr. L.M. Saini Senior Technical Officer Sh. Sanjeev Kumar Technical Assistant Sh. Himanshu Reddu Technician Sh. Satpal Store Keeper Sh. Pawan Kumar Address National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in