URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/chemistry/
Title: Chemistry – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 449
--------------------------------------------------
Chemistry – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Chemistry DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY MESSAGE: It is my pleasure to communicate this message about Department of Chemistry, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra. The Department of Chemistry started in 1963 and is one of the oldest departments of the institute. Chemistry is basically all about knowing and investigating the structures and reactions of substances of matter and covers an important part of science that bridges many aspects of other sciences, physical and biological, opening a door to many technological developments. Over the years, the Department has done high-profile research in a variety of areas, including coordination, analytical, bioinorganic, supramolecular, computational, organometallic, materials, organic, and polymer chemistry. The results of many of these research endeavours have been published in national and international journals of repute. The faculty also offers consultancy services to chemical industries in the region. Vision: Provide a comprehensive, relevant curriculum to all branches of  B.Tech., M.Tech. & Ph.D. in Chemistry Promoting the collegial exchange of ideas, independent thoughts, and the highest ethical standards. Produce knowledgeable Graduates; post graduates  and Doctoral students for careers in academia, industries and government organizations promoting a diverse population of faculty, staff and students conducting  significant research in Chemistry Mission: Independent thoughts, collegial exchange of ideas and high ethical standards Frequent interactions between faculty and students and Use of modern educational technology in lecture and laboratory courses Development of innovative instructional techniques Undergraduate Courses: The department offers two compulsory courses in Chemistry as an integral part of the curriculum of engineering degree courses in the first and second semesters. Emphasis is laid on the basic principles of chemistry and their applications in engineering disciplines. The department also offers electives to students of 7th and 8th semesters. Courses Offered: B Tech. 1st Semester Chemistry-I, CHT-105 (Theory) Chemistry-I, CHT-107 (Practical) B Tech 2nd Semester: Chemistry-II,CHT-106 (Theory) Chemistry-II,CHT-108( Practical) B Tech.7th Semester Metals & Alloys B Tech 8th Semester Polymer Technology Equipments Available: UV/visible Diode Array Spectrophotometer CHNS/O Elemental Analyzer FT-IR Spectrophotometer High Precision Electronic Balances Fluorescent Spectrophotometer High Vacuum Rotatory Evaporator Digital Melting Point Apparatus Ion-selective Electrode pH Meter Rotatory Shaker Laboratory Facilities: Engineering Chemistry Laboratory for UG Students Instrumentation Laboratory for UG & Research Students Research Laboratories Research Facilities: Research facilities leading to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy exist in the department. At present , members of the staff are engaged in research in the following fields: Bio-inorganic chemistry Coordination chemistry Macrocyclic chemistry Polymer anchored coordination chemistry Synthesis of heterocycles of medicinal interest Flourescent and chemo sensors Development and industrial uses of photostabilizers, thermostabilizers for various polymeric materials Biomimetic compounds Synthesis of nanomaterials Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in