URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/civil-engg/
Title: Civil Engineering – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 250
--------------------------------------------------
Civil Engineering – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Civil Engineering DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENTAL PROFILE The Department of Civil Engineering of National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (Formerly Regional Engineering College, Haryana) started functioning from the year 1963, when the first batch of students were admitted to the five year B Sc. Engineering Degree Course. In 1966, M Sc. Engineering Degree Courses in the specializations of Structural Engineering and Constructional Techniques; and Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering were started. The first registration for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Civil Engineering was done in 1967. The Institute switched over to four year B Tech Degree Programme from 1985. The M Sc Engineering programs were also renamed as M Tech programs. In 1989, M Tech Degree Course in Water Resources Engineering was started. Three Year Special Degree Course, “Bachelor of Engineering” for In-Service field engineers holding Diploma in Engineering was introduced from the Session 1982-83. The course was fully funded by Govt. of Haryana. The Govt. of Haryana has discontinued this course w.e.f 2001-02. Master of Technology in the specializations, Transportation Engineering and Environmental Engineering were started from year 2005. VISION AND MISSION OF THE DEPARTMENT VISION To impart state-of-the-art Civil engineering education and research responsive to global challenges. MISSION To impart quality Civil engineering education that develops innovative professionals & entrepreneurs to undertake research that generates cutting-edge technologies & futuristic knowledge, focusing on socio-economic needs. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in