URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/computer-engg/
Title: Computer Engineering – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 361
--------------------------------------------------
Computer Engineering – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Computer Engineering About Us The department started offering B.Tech. Programme in Computer Engineering in 1987 with initial intake of 30 students and subsequently raised to 210. Department also started B.Tech programme in Information Technology (IT) in 2006 with present intake of 140 students. Department of Computer Engineering is offering a new undergraduate program from the 2023-24 academic session in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning (AI & ML) with an intake of 60. The curriculum of the B.Tech. program in AI&ML emphasizes the foundations of computational mathematics as well as key areas of computer science, while also incorporating fundamental concepts and the latest advancements in artificial intelligence, data science and machine learning. By offering core courses in computer science and engineering, the program equips students with the necessary skills to navigate the dynamic landscape of IT requirements preparing for the future. The department is proud to have a record of almost 100% placement for last 10 years. The department also offers two M.Tech. programs, one in Computer Engineering and other in Cyber Security. Department started Ph.D. program in 2002. So far 44 Ph.D.s have been awarded and 28 PhDs are in progress. Currently there are five sponsored projects undergoing in the department. Faculty of the department have specialized areas for advanced studies and research in Distributed Computing, Software Engineering, Computer Networks, Database and Data Mining, Natural Language Processing, Information and Cyber Security, Image Processing. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories of all major domains of Computer Engineering and Information Technology with excellent intranet, servers, hardware and software support. Each year, many students of the department get selected for higher studies in world’s most reputed Universities and Institutes. The department is equally active in research with many quality publications each year in IEEE, Sciencedirect, ACM, Springer, Wiley etc. For the overall development we also cover the other aspects of life like Health management, moral and ethical development of the students. The Department’s UG programs B. Tech Computer Engineering and Information Technology are NBA Accredited  from Academic Year upto 2022-23 Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in