URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/electrical-maintenance/
Title: Electrical Maintenance – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 400
--------------------------------------------------
Electrical Maintenance – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Electrical Maintenance Responsibilities and duties discharged by the Electrical Maintenance Section: Allocation of maintenance jobs in Institute Academic area to outsourcing staff. Will report for work in morning shift and be responsible for addressing emergent situation occurring during this shift. Operation and maintenance of lifts in all campus, keeping track of their AMCs and making payment of AMC in due time. Purchase installation and maintenance of various equipment e.g Air Conditioners, Water Coolers, UPS systems, Dessert coolers, Exhaust fans, RO systems etc. in all sections and departments of institute. Proper record of store, diesel, load demand, consumption etc. Monitoring and inspection of all electrical works executed by CPWD in the institute. Allocation of maintenance jobs in the Hostels area to outsourcing staff . Maintenance of street lighting in all campus: academic, residential and hostels. Operation and maintenance of all DG sets throughout campus and maintaining adequate stock of diesel. Loading tracking at 3 number of institute substations and load relief as when required. To maintain and make necessary efforts for substation sustainability. Reading, Dispatch and Recovery of electricity charges from Hostel sector which involves meter reading, issuing bills and collecting charges. Maintenance of water supply motors . Purchase, installation and maintenance of firefighting equipment (fire extinguishers) in the campus. \ Allocation of maintenance jobs in the Residential area to outsourcing staff. Will report for work in morning shift, however be responsible for addressing emergent situation occurring during night shift Liaising with UHBVN for bulk electricity supply, maintaining record of electricity bills of institute. Recovery of electricity charges from residential sector which involves meter reading, issuing bills and collecting charges. Rewiring works of all old buildings and replacement of old distribution systems with LT Panels. Commissioning of Lifts for persons with disabilities. Diesel purchase for whole institute requirements. Power saving measures time to time like replacement of old fixtures with LED and low wattage electrical appliances etc. To execute and maintain the renewable energy generation system. Details sent to ministry time to time whenever requisites received. To process the new cases for necessary electrical renovation or requirements of the institute with the vision of institute growth. Purchase the batteries/ UPS either by new purchase/ buyback for institute as suitable. Forms and Online Links: Electricity Connection form Electricity Disconnection Form Online Complaint Telephone Complaint Address National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in