URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/laboratories-2/
Title: Laboratories – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 369
--------------------------------------------------
Laboratories – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Laboratories UG students Labs: The Department has 5 Labs for B.Tech students as following: Sr, No Lab No of Systems Facilities 1 Application & System Software Lab 40 Desktop Computer Systems, Projector 2 Computer Networks Lab 36 Desktop Computer Systems 3 Software Engineering 40 Desktop Computer Systems, Projector 4 Project Lab 40 Desktop Computer Systems 5 Database System & Cloud Computing Lab 36 Desktop Computer Systems All the Labs of the department are well equipped with many modern facilities/utilities that provide a good ambience and working environment for the students and staff of the department. The department has Linux and Windows Server; all are inter-net-worked through switches & around 450 nodes are connected to the above servers. The following software available are:  Compilers for common languages C, C++, Java, Visual Studio, .NET Framework, Oracle 10g, Rational Rose Software, NetSim Simulator, QualNet Simulator. PG Students labs: Following 04 laboratories that are mainly used by the PG/PhD students of Computer Engineering & Cyber Security: Speech & Image Processing Laboratory (PG) Cyber Security Laboratory (PG) Data Science and Machine Learning Laboratory (PG/UG) Research Lab and Centre of Excellence (PG/PhD) The students also perform lab experiments related to Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms, Advanced Computer Networks etc in other labs namely Software Engineering Laboratory and Database and Cloud Computing Laboratory These laboratories are well equipped with the instruments required by the UG, PG & PhD students for courses, thesis and research work. All the labs are backed up on Online UPS and networked with the campus wide LAN via wired and wireless LAN. The department also has a Conference Room and Seminar Room equipped with multimedia facility. Details of Facilities in eight Labs: Servers/Workstations: Intel Xeon Rack based (Dell R 730) ——-02 Nos. Desktop Computers: Intel i7 processor based ——-                       300 Nos. Intel i7 processor based with Graphics ——-  15 Nos. Intel i5 processor based                     ——–    25 Nos. Intel i3 processor based                      ——-    25 Nos. Total:                                                               ——–365 Nos. High Performance Computing System– 02 Nos Photocopier / Network Printers:                 ——-03 Nos. Konica Minolta bizhub C 300i Konica Minolta bizhub 363 Kyocera TasKalfa 3011i Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in