URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/message-from-coordinator-doap/
Title: Message from Coordinator: DoAP – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 305
--------------------------------------------------
Message from Coordinator: DoAP – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Message from Coordinator: DoAP We are pleased to start five-year full time Bachelor of Architecture Degree program at Department of Architecture and Planning at Institution of National Importance w.e.f. A.Y. 2024-25. Curriculum is designed to nurture the natural talent and creativity of students, and prepare them to contribute for the betterment of society with sense of responsibility and commitment. Various courses are included in the B. Arch. curriculum to foster values and ethics in budding professionals enabling them to respect nature and take design decisions based on Human, Social and Environmental Values. No education is complete if the scholar is unable to move from levels of learning to achieve knowledge leading to wisdom. On the pious land of Kurukshetra (also known as Dharm Kshetra), we believe in imbibing Ancient Indian Wisdom and Values in our scholars which will groom them for optimized use of resources, modern technology and market practices. Our TEAM of experienced faculty members guide the students individually to nurture their talent and creativity in rigorous studios, which is the strength of architectural education.   Labs, Studios and Workshops in this premier institution facilitate hands on learning experience, and “Learning by Doing” makes the students study at this institution an enjoyable and more meaningful. Developing a country and society require not only infrastructure but also cultured citizens, and the responsibility lies with the architects and planners to shape the built environment for future generations.  We deliver a distinctly different architectural education that combines a rich, interdisciplinary design-based philosophy with an entrepreneurial mind-set and a deep commitment to working with all stakeholders. I encourage you to visit our institution and learn more about our exciting entrepreneurial approach to career building through the study of architecture and planning. Prof (Dr) H K Sharma Coordinator 9416334644 (Mob)