URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/ncc/
Title: NCC – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 612
--------------------------------------------------
NCC – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra NCC National Cadet Corps (NCC), NIT Kurukshetra New Initiative by the Institute: The Institute had applied to NCC directorate for three companies (one company strength is 160 cadet) of NCC each in Army, Air Force and Navy in Fully Self Finance Scheme (FSFS) category. Apart from regular NCC (Army wing),the Institute has been allotted 50 seats in NCC (Air Force wing) and 160 seats in NCC (Army wing). The enrollment in Air Force (NCC) was started from the academic year 2022-23 and enrollment in NCC FSFS(Army wing) started from Academic Year 2023-24. Organizational Details DG NCC: New Delhi under Ministry of Defence, Govt of India (GoI) State NCC Directorate: HR, HP, PB and CHD NCC Group HQ: Ambala NCC Battalion: Kurukshetra (Army), Karnal (Air Force) and Faridabad (Navy) Institute: National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (Haryana) NCC Officers Associate NCC Officer (ANO) NCC (Army Wing) FSFS: Lt. Shahabuddin, S.A.S. Officer CTO NCC (Air Force wing), FSFS, Dr Chhagan Charan, Assistant Professor, ECE Department CTO (Army wing), regular, Dr. Nidhi Gupta, Assistant Professor, DCA CTO NCC (Navy wing) Dr Ashutosh Nandi, Assistant Professor, ECE Department More about NCC The NCC is a vibrant youth organization, which has made a commendable contribution in producing responsible and patriotic citizens. From a small beginning, today it has grown to the largest youth organization. NCC motivates and trains upcoming generations to render their meaningful contribution towards national integration and development. Selection & Reservation: The induction of students in NCC is based on physical fitness, psychology and general aptitude. 33% seats are reserved for girl students.  Institutional Training is imparted beyond class hours or in the morning or in the evening by defence officers from NCCBn, cadets get payment for refreshment as per NCC rules. Training areas are Drill Map reading Weapon training Physical fitness etc. Classroom lectures by experts on topics like Field Craft Battle craft First aids etc Cadets may have to participate in social activities, like Anti dowry awareness Tree plantation Disaster Relief Blood Donation AIDS Awareness Adult Education Pulse polio Yoga In the month of February, certificate examinations for 2nd year and 3rd year NCC cadets are conducted by NCC directorate. NCC Camps It is compulsory for the cadets to undergo at least two training camps of NCC, each of about 10 days duration, in 2nd year and 3rd year. The aim of NCC camp is to expose the cadets to a regimental way of life along with physical and mental hardship for the overall development of their personality. Regular Army officers organize the different types of NCC camps. Eligibility for certificate Examinations Eligibility to appear in the ‘B’ certificate examination is that the cadet must have attended at least 75% of total parades held in the first year in the Institute. the cadet must have attended at least 75% of total parades held in the second year. the cadet must have attended one NCC training camp in 2nd year. Eligibility to appear in the ‘C’ certificate examination is that the cadet should have passed ‘B’ certificate examination. the cadet should have attended at least 75% of total parades held in the 3rd year. the cadet must have attended one NCC Annual Training Camp (ATC) in 3rd year. Three years training of NCC in the institute and camp exposure enables cadets to obtain ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates of NCC after qualifying the respective examinations, conducted by NCC Directorate. These certificates are of immense value for the the students in moulding their future career. Financial Assistance NCC also offers financial assistance to meritorious and needy students in the form of scholarships awarded by the DG NCC and other organizations.