URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/physics/
Title: Physics – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 649
--------------------------------------------------
Physics – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Physics DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS MISSION Since the concepts and fundamentals of Physics form the basis of Science, Engineering and Technology, their apt comprehension and adequate applications lead to innovation, research, development and consultancy. In order to achieve the aforementioned objectives, Physics Department aims at providing necessary knowledge of Physics to young and budding engineers. The main activities of the Department are undergraduate teaching, Post Graduate teaching, Research and Consultancy. VISION To be acknowledged in the fields of Physics, Instrumentation and Nanotechnology for Teaching, Research and Consultancy as innovative, dynamic and distinctive contributors to the global community. Objectives Present Courses: With an objective of preparing the excellent engineers to participate and get better placement in academic, research, development, consultancy work in the leading organizations/Institutions of the country and abroad the following UG Courses are offered : (a) Undergraduate Courses Two compulsory courses are taught to B.Tech. students e.g. Classical Physics and Modern Physics in first semester; and Solid State Physics, Laser and Fibre Optics in second semester. (b) Elective Subjects The students of B. Tech. 7th & 8th Semesters can opt for any of the following elective subjects: Lasers Ultrasonics Non-Destructive testing Transducers and their applications (c) Postgraduate Courses The department runs two 4- semester M. Tech. Degree courses: one in Instrumentation and the other in Nano-technology. The aim of these courses is to prepare science and engineering graduates for a design development career in the field of Instrumentation and Nanotechnology. The course on Instrumentation lays emphasis on the approach to instrumentation techniques which find applications in industry, or in the R & D laboratories, teaching and research institutions. Nanotechnology is a cutting edge technology and there is world wide spurt in R & D activities in this area. Since there is need of man-power and research personnel in this thrust area in the present scenario, these courses have been designed to meet such targets as above and to prepare the students to keep abreast with new & emerging technologies. ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES Postgraduate Courses M.Tech. (4- semesters) Discipline No. of seats Specializations Open SC ST Sponsored OBC M. Tech. Instrumentation 10 03 02 05 05 Instrumentation M.Tech. Nanotechnology 10 03 02 05 05 Nanotechnology FUTURE PLAN 1. Road Map/School The department has already submitted a Road Map to start M.Sc. (Physics), B. Tech. (Nanotechnology) and B. Tech. (Engineering Physics) programmes. The important assignment for developing the school/centre of Material Science & Nanotechnology leading to M.Tech. & Ph. D. programmes, has been given by the institute to the department in conjunction with other departments. The prime objective of the school/centre is to impart quality technical education which will develop innovative professionals who can undertake research and development to generate cutting-edge technologies relevant to socio-economic needs. 2. Upgradation of Curriculum Syllabi of various Undergraduate & Postgraduate courses have been periodically upgraded and will be revised and modified further as per requirement 3. Renovation/Development/Upgradation of labs The UG, PG, Research and Computer Labs are being upgraded periodically and will be upgraded further as per requirement. 4. Faculty/Nonteaching Staff Development Experts will be invited from India/abroad to interact with the faculty so as to enhance and update their knowledge. The faculty will also be encouraged to visit various National/International renowned Universities/Institutions Conferences & seminars will be organized in the emerging/thrust areas related to Instrumentation, Nanotechnology, research & development (R & D). Faculty will be encouraged to work in the interdisplinary areas of teaching, research, development and consultancy in the Institute. There will be formation of Students’ Advisory Committee for increased participation of students in curriculum planning, development, and inclusive growth. There will be an all out effort to encourage the students and faculty to excel in research and development programmes.. The programmes for updating the knowledge of teaching supporting staff will be planned. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in