URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/projects/
Title: Projects – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 697
--------------------------------------------------
Projects – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Projects (A)Completed Project in Last Three Years1.Construction of 3 Storey bearer barrack comprising of 2 Blocks to accommodate 96 bearers.2.Provision for two nos. Institute Main Gates3.Construction of Boundary Wall (left out stretches) for a length of about 800 mtr. and Gate (near UHBVN office)4.Installation of Cold Water Tank Supply Pipe line to the solar water heating system installed in the hostel no.1 to 9 boys hostel, Girls hostel no. 1 & 25.Replacement of C.I./A.C. water supply lines with Centrifugally Cast (Spun) Iron Pipes Class L.A. in the Residences, Hostels & Instructional Building6.Provision of re-surfacing and widening of existing roads in residential campus and institutional area7.Construction of Swimming Pool8.Construction of 600 Seater Girls Hostel (Multi-Storeyed Framed Structure, Ground Floor+5)9.Construction of Sewage Treatment Plant (STP)10.Providing Concertina coil over the Institute boundary for security purpose11.Provision of Permanent/Temporary Huts for security guards at various locations in the Institute at NIT, Kurukshetra.12.Providing & Installation of 16/20 meter High Mast lights at Sports Ground and various other location13.Provision of DG power backup at various locations in the Institute covering instructional buildings and related facilities14.Provision of DG power backup in boys & girls hostels15.Replacement of existing LT Panels with MCB’s in the Institute16.Provision of Aviation Light & Lightening conductor in the Mega Boys Hostel (1000 capacity) at NIT, Kurukshetra.17.Providing & Installation of electrical Sub-Station HT/LT distribution including street lighting and feeder pillar etc. in non-residential area(B)On-Going Projects1.Preparation of Institute Master Plan of NITK.2.Construction of 300 Seaters Multi-purpose boys hostel including 100 suits for foreign students, research scholars and married PG Students. (Multi-storeyed framed structure). (Ground Floor +5).3.Replacement of existing Electrical wirings in Instructional building at NIT, Kurukshetra (i) Replacement /rewiring of A1 Wiring with copper wiring in Electrical Engineering Department. (ii) Replacement/rewiring of A1 Wiring of A1 Wiring with copper wiring in old Adm. Block (iii) Replacement/rewiring of A1 Wiring with copper wiring in Examination Cell, Mechanical Engineering Department & Civil engineering Department. (iv) Replacement /rewiring of A1 Wiring with copper wiring in Electronics & Communication, CCN Department & Exam Hall4Providing & Installation of Electrical Sub-station HT/LT Distribution and feeder pillars in residential area5Providing Kitchen equipment in 600 seater Girls Hostel (multi-storeyed) RCC framed structure (Ground+5)(C)Future Projects1.Provision of lifts for persons with disabilities (PwD) at various locations in the Institute2.Providing audio system in Board Room, Golden Jubilee Administrative Building including Jubilee Hall & Senate Hall3.Furnishing floor with tiles in the common room, dinning hall, warden office and MMCA office in the old boy’s hostel No. 1to6 and girl’s hostel No.-14Provision of construction of Verandah for non-teaching staff club situated in F-type quarters5.Construction of Indoor Badminton Hall in Sports Complex6.Construction of shed for covering the sports complex stairs7.Provision of access to Golden Jubilee Administrative Building by providing a gate & parking shed for two wheelers along the in-side boundary wall towards west8.Provision of shed for parking only for four wheelers in the existing parking near NIT Market9.Providing Air-conditioning in Dining Halls of Boy’s & Girls Hostels at NIT, Kurukshetra.10.Construction of Additional floor over the existing building of Computer Application Department11.Construction of Labs Complex (G+5)12.Construction of Additional floor over the existing building of Computer Engineering Department13.Construction of additional 3 nos. lecture hall on 2nd floor over the  existing building of ECE Department and construction of additional floor over the Electronics & Communication Engineering Department14.Construction of Additional (6 nos. Lecture Hall) over the existing 12 nos. Lecture Hall Complex15.Construction of Additional floor over the existing AB Block.16.Construction of Additional floor over the existing building of Examination Hall17.Construction of Additional floor over the existing Old MBA Block (New Workshop Building)18.Construction of extension existing corridor form Old MBA Block to 12 Nos. LHC and MBA/MCA building19.Construction of Gymnasium Hall20.Construction of Community Centre/Convention/SAC21.Providing peripheral road along the external boundary wall of the Institute for security and maintenance purpose22.Construction of Multi-storeyed building for faculty/officers having 40 apartments23.Construction of multi-storeyed 20 Nos. Type-II & 20 Nos. Type-III quarters for Non-Teaching Staff24.Construction, Installation & Commissioning of 33/11KV Sub-Station at NIT, Kurukshetra25.Replacement of rewiring in All old Boys, Girls Hostels and Residential Area.26.Construction of State of Arts Centre27.Construction of Additional Lecture Hall Complex (18 Nos. Lecture Hall) Address National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in