URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/programs-7/
Title: Programs – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 364
--------------------------------------------------
Programs – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Programs UG Programs Scheme and Syllabus are attached in (w.e.f. 2017 onwards) are attached in Annexure Scheme and Syllabus (prior to 2027) are attached in Annexure With an objective of preparing excellent engineers to participate and get better placement in academic, research, development, consultancy work in the leading Organizations/Institutions of the country and abroad the following UG Courses are offered: (i) Compulsory Courses: Two compulsory courses are taught to all the B.Tech. students: Physics-I in first semester and Physics-II in second semester. (ii) Open Elective Courses: The students of B. Tech. 7th semester can opt for any of the seven elective subjects: Laser Technology, Nuclear Technology, Industrial Physics, Physics of Energy Harvesting Technologies, Ultrasonics and Applications, Nanoscience and Technology, Sensors-Science and Technology. PG Programs The department runs two 4- semester M. Tech. Degree courses: one in Instrumentation and the other in Nano-technology. The aim of these courses is to prepare science and engineering graduates for a design development career in the field of Instrumentation and Nanotechnology. The course on Instrumentation lays emphasis on the approach to instrumentation techniques which find applications in industry, or in the R & D laboratories, teaching and research institutions. Nanotechnology is a cutting edge technology and there is worldwide spurt in R & D activities in this area. Since there is need of man-power and research personnel in this thrust area in the present scenario, these courses have been designed to meet such targets as above and to prepare the students to keep abreast with new & emerging technologies. Proposed Scheme and Syllabus of M.Sc. for AY 2024-25 Scheme and Syllabi of M.Sc. Physics 1st Year Year for A.Y. 2023-24) in Annexure Scheme and Syllabi of M.Sc. Physics 2nd Year for A.Y. 2024-25) in Annexure Scheme and Syllabus of M.Tech. Instrumentation is attached in Annexure Scheme and Syllabus of M.Tech. Nanotechnology  is attached in Annexure Doctoral Program The MBA program at Doctoral (Scheme and Syllabi) The department offers doctoral degree wherein students are guided in all major areas of Physics and engaged in research in cutting edge technologies. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in