URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/programmes/
Title: Programs – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 293
--------------------------------------------------
Programs – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Programs UG Programs Scheme and Syllabi Prior to 2017 batch Annexure 1 2017 batch onwards Annexure 2 PG Programs Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) for the PG program(s) PEO1: Possess fundamental as well as advanced knowledge with research initiatives in the field of Electronics and Communication Engineering. PEO2: Be able to design solutions for electronic system for real world applications, which are technically feasible and economically viable leading to social benefits. PEO3: Possess team spirit, have communication skills, ethical and professional attitude for lifelong learning. Program Outcomes PO1: To independently carry out research /investigation and   development work to solve practical problems PO2: To write and present a substantial technical report/document PO3: To demonstrate a degree of mastery over the area as per the specialization of the program. The mastery should be at a level higher than the requirements in the appropriate bachelor program. PO4: To perform professional and ethical responsibility of the society. PO5: To engage in self-improvement through continuous professional development and life-long learning. Scheme and Syllabi Doctoral Program The department of Electronics and Communication Engineering offers Ph.D. program in the following research areas: “Wireless Communications, Wireless Sensor Networks, Wireless Security, Communication Systems, Neural Networks, Signal Processing, Image Processing, Satellite imaging and Applications, Synthetic Aperture Radar, Image/Data fusion, Speech Processing, Optical Communications, Embedded System Design Applications, Disease Diagnosis in Human beings using Voice Profiling, Low power VLSI design, Carbon Nanotubes and other Nanostructures, CNTFETs, Graphene FETs, Spintronics, SPINFETs, Magnetic Tunnel Junctions, Microelectronics and VLSI Design, Device modelling, Device circuit co-design in digital/analog domain.” Present strength of Ph.D. students enrolled in the Department: Full time Ph.D. scholars: 17 Part time Ph.D. scholars: 30 Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in