URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/school-of-renewable-energy-and-efficiency-sree/
Title: School of Renewable Energy and Efficiency – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 900
--------------------------------------------------
School of Renewable Energy and Efficiency – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra School of Renewable Energy and Efficiency Preamble Realizing the need for education and research in the field of renewable energy, the School of Renewable Energy and Efficiency was established at National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, Haryana, India in the year 2012. Research and development activities on various relevant aspects of non conventional energy sources were initiated. In response to the demand from industries and other organizations for trained manpower in the interdisciplinary field of energy, an M.Tech. in Renewable Energy Systems has been offered since inception of the school. Mission The school of academic excellence for carrying out education, research, development, training and advisory services to provide key inputs for full realization of renewable energy potential with thrust on solar, wind and biomass. Vision To be a school to reckon with the state of art knowledge, skills, and academic excellence in the area of renewable energy.To strive to prepare energy professionals for the challenges that lie ahead in a continuously changing world, by offering them different perspectives on renewable energy resources. Academic M.Tech. (Renewable Energy Systems): No. of seats – 20 Ph.D. Enrolled: Part-Time -10          Full Time -05 Expertise Solar Thermal Energy Mathematical analysis of the various solar thermal energy systems has been done for the various design and operating parameters. Indigenously developed test rigs have been fabricated to carry out the parametric study of these systems. Thermal performance analysis of Evacuated tube collector is done and the performance is optimized for water/air heating for Indian climatic conditions. Parabolic trough is modified to work without tracking and tested for the purpose of cooking for sun shine and off sun shine hours. Scheffler reflectors are commercially available in the sizes of 2.7m 2 , 8m 2 , 12m 2 , 16m 2 and 32m 2 . These reflectors are costly, bulky and not very user friendly. At NIT Kurukshetra, numerical facility has been developed to design a Scheffler reflector of any size. A cost effective, light weight prototype Scheffler reflector of 1.54m 2 area is also fabricated &amp; tested for various applications like cooking, water heating, steam generation etc. The school can assist in designing and development of these solar thermal systems for domestic as well as industrial consumers. Solar Assisted Cooling Systems Heat required in the Vapor Absorption System (VAS) may be supplied using the solar thermal systems. Multi-objective optimization, designing of the components and performance analysis of VAS is carried out by us extensively for a wide range of parameters using engineering equationsolver (EES). Jet ejector cooling system is also a heat driven cooling system in which the compressor is replaced by an ejector. Heat required in the vapor ejector cooling system can work as low as 60ºC, which can be easily maintained by the solar thermal systems. Designing of the ejector and the complete cooling system is carried out for a wide range of parameters using engineering equation solver (EES). Desiccant evaporative cooling system is a solar assisted cooling system in which the desiccant wheel, enthalpy wheel and indirect evaporator cooler are used. Designing of the desiccant evaporative cooling system is carried out for a wide range of parameters using FlexPDE. The school can assist in designing and development of these solar assisted cooling systems for domestic as well as industrial consumers. Wind Energy Performance analysis of the wind generators: The major electrical components in WECS are the generator and power electronic converters, based on the type of generator used they are classified as Self excited induction generator (fixed WECS): This configuration features simplicity, low initial costs, and reliable operation but its wind energy conversion efficiency is low and the changes in the wind speed are reflected to the grid integration. Doubly fed induction generator (semi variable WECS): Here, use of the power converters allows bidirectional power flow in the rotor circuit and increases the speed range of the generator. This system features improved overall power conversion efficiency by performing maximum power point tracking (MPPT). The fault ride through capability is limited due to the partial scale power converter. The gearbox increases overall turbine cost, weight and as well demands regular maintenance. Permanent magnet synchronous generator (variable WECS): Here, the generator is fully decoupled from the grid, and can operate at full speed range (0 to 100%). The power converter also enables the system to perform reactive power compensation and smooth grid connection. The wind energy conversion efficiency is highest in these turbines compared to other types of turbines but the power converters must be rated same as generator capacity, the size, cost and complexity of overall system increases. Moreover the losses in power converter are high leading to low efficiency. The limitations of various WECS listed above can be reduced by using Direct Torque Control, Direct Power Control and Vector Control. Moreover implementing active power filters and FACTS devices in WECS will provide better grid compatibility. Implementation of fixed, semi variable and variable WECS in MATLAB and based on this prototype models can be developed. Solar PV Systems Design and analysis of solar PV systems Power quality of solar PV system integrated to grid can be improved by implementing active power filters and increasing the level of the converters in the PV system. Emerging multi level converter topologies can be implemented. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in