URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/scholarship-2/
Title: Scholarships – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 1160
--------------------------------------------------
Scholarships – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Scholarships National Scholarship Portal (NSP) National Scholarships Portal is one-stop solution through which various services starting from student application, application receipt, processing, sanction and disbursal of various scholarships to Students are enabled. National Scholarships Portal is taken as Mission Mode Project under National e-Governance Plan (NeGP). The Mission Mode Project (MMP) of National Scholarships Portal under the National e-Governance Plan aims at providing common electronic portal for implementing various Scholarships schemes launched by Union Government, State Government and Union Territories across the country. Objectives Ensure timely disbursement of Scholarships to students Provide a common portal for various Scholarships schemes of Central and State Governments Create a transparent database of scholars Avoid duplication in processing Harmonisation of different Scholarships schemes & norms Application of Direct Benefit Transfer Various Schemes for all categories (General, OBC, SC, ST, DNT etc.) are run by Central/State Governments on NSP portal like Top Class Education Scheme for SC Students and PM yasasvi central sector scheme of top class education in college for OBC, EBC and DNT students runs by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Students may to visit the NSP Portal https://scholarships.gov.in/for more information regarding procedure to apply for scholarship, eligibility, criteria etc. Har-Chhatravratti Scholarship (Haryana) Scholarships are offered to deserving and needy students to encourage them to take up Higher education. This incentive falls in line with the motto of Higher Education of the State: Access, Equity and Quality. Generation makes Nation. Therefore the Govt. of India and Govt. of Haryana are always putting their efforts to attract the students towards Higher Education. “Har-Chhatravratti” is a centralized portal developed by the Department of Higher Education that provides one stop solution for end-to-end scholarship process right from submission of application, verification and disbursal to end beneficiary. Keeping in view the State Government’s commitment to make beneficiary-oriented schemes easily accessible, seamless and transparent, a centralized State Scholarship Portal has been developed by bringing in 15 scholarship schemes of 7 major department of the government under a single platform. “Har-Chhatravratti” Portal emerges as one of the most prominent scholarship portal that offers three tier verification of the application. Student Application form got verified from three levels i.e. Institute, University/Nodal Body and Head Office thus ensuring the complete authentication of the applicant. This portal is also integrated with state flagship programme i.e. Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) scheme of Haryana Government. In order to avail the benefits of scholarship schemes of the state government, it is mandatory for each applicant to have Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP). Har-chhatrvratti portal would also include the students of Haryana domicile who are studying outside Haryana. Such application would directly be verified by the concerned department. Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) is mandatory for availing any Scholarship benefit. So Student are advised to make ensure their all particulars such as Name, DOB, Aadhar No. etc are fully updated in PPP before applying for any scholarship scheme. For PMS-SC and PMS-BC schemes, Students whose family income falls between 1.80 to 2.50 lacs are required to download the Family Income Certificate from the SARAL Portal and upload it while applying for the application form. For more information, students may visit the Portal https://harchhatravratti.highereduhry.ac.in/ Single Sign On (SSO) Scholarship (Rajasthan) With the help of the SSO scheme, students could avail of scholarships. To avail of all the benefits of this noble scheme, the residents of Rajasthan can easily apply for this scheme by simple online registration. The SSO ID is a single sign-in ID for accessing everything on the official platform.  Using the SSO ID, one can avail of their labour card, Aadhar card, food security, government farms, etc. The Rajasthan SSO (Single Sign-On) portal, developed by the state government, allows citizens to access multiple online services through a single platform. By creating an SSO account, individuals can obtain a unique digital identity to access government services. This article provides an in-depth overview of the Rajasthan SSO ID registration process, eligibility requirements, and available web portal services. For more information, students may visit the Portal https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidhyarthi Yojna (MMVY) (Madhya Pradesh) Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana is a state program run by the Government of Madhya Pradesh. This merit scholarship is available for those who have passed the 12th standard with 70% marks and are currently pursuing a Graduate, Postgraduate or professional courses. The amount of the scholarship varies from course to course and based on the type of college. For more information, students may visit the Portal https://scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in/ Uttar Pradesh Scholarship Uttar Pradesh government has launched several scholarship opportunities for the students of the state. Every scholarship has its own set of eligibility criteria that students need to fulfill and be eligible to apply for the scholarship opportunity. One of the key criteria that are applicable for Uttar Pradesh scholarships is to be a permanent resident of Uttar Pradesh (UP) or hold a domicile of UP. Complete information related to other aspects like academic qualifications, family income limit, etc. leads to the successful application of scholarships For more information, students may visit the Portal https://scholarship.up.gov.in/ Post Matric Bihar Scholarship The Bihar government launched the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme with the primary goal of assisting and motivating students to pursue higher education. The benefit of the Bihar Post Matric Scholarship is that it offers financial aid, specifically in the form of incentive money, to students who fall under the SC/ST/BC/EBC categories. The Bihar Post Matric Scholarship is a financial assistance program designed to help students from economically disadvantaged families pursue higher education. The award amount for the Bihar Post Matric Scholarship varies depending on the course and level of study. The scholarship covers tuition fees, maintenance allowance, and other expenses related to the student’s education. For more information, students may visit the Portal https://www.pmsonline.bih.nic.in/ Prime Ministers Special Scholarship Scheme to J&K Students PMSSS or Prime Minister’s Special Scholarship Scheme is a financial opportunity offered by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). PMSSS 2023, also known as AICTE JK Scholarship 2023. The aim of PMSSS is to financially assist the students of the Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh regions For more information, students may visit the Portal https://www.aicte-india.org/bureaus/jk Note: – Notifications of all kind of scholarships will be circulated and uploaded in the Institute through Notice Boards in Departments/Schools/Hostels and on the Institute website respectively. It is mandatory for the student to submit the scholarship form with all supporting documents in Academic Section for further verification and forwarding of application. A student can avail only one scholarship in an Academic Year. A student can apply more than one scholarship with the submission of non-selection proof in previous applied scholarship. It is responsibility of the student to inform the academic section regarding the status of availing of scholarship. At later stage, any student found with taking benefits of two scholarships at a time, disciplinary action will be taken as per rule. Click here to browse the archived Scholarship notifications