URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/scheme-syllabi-2/
Title: Scheme Syllabi – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 7812
--------------------------------------------------
Scheme Syllabi – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Scheme Syllabi Renewable Energy Systems School of Renewable Energy and Efficiency MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY (Renewable Energy Systems) w.e.f. 2017-18 FIRST SEMESTER Course  No. Title Credit Point Lecture Practical Total SRE501T Renewable Energy Sources 3 – 3 3 SRE 503T Solar Thermal Systems 3 – 3 3 SRE 505T Power Electronics & Control 3 – 3 3 SRE 51XT Elective-I 3 – 3 3 SRE 52XT Elective-II 3 – 3 3 SRE 507P Seminar / NPTEL-1 – 2 2 1 SRE 509P Energy Lab-I – 4 4 2 Total 15 06 21 18 Weightage for Theory Courses: During Semester Evaluation Weightage – 50% End Semester Examination Weightage – 50% Weightage for Lab. Courses: During Semester Evaluation Weightage – 60% End Semester Examination Weightage – 40% * Industrial Visits: Minimum One. * Invited Talks: Minimum One. List of Electives (Any two electives are to be offered, selecting one from each group). Elective I Sr. No. Course No. Title 1. SRE 511T Small Hydro Power Plants 2. SRE 513T Design of Experiments 3. SRE 515T Optimization Techniques Elective II Sr. No. Course No. Title 1. SRE 521 T Life Cycle Assessment of Renewable Systems 2. SRE 523 T Converters For Renewable Energy Systems 3. SRE 525 T Power System Operation & Control 4. SRE 527 T Energy Storage School of Renewable Energy and Efficiency MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY (Renewable Energy Systems) w.e.f. 2017-18 SECOND SEMESTER Course  No. Title Credit Point Lectures Practical Total SRE502T Solar Photovoltaic Systems 3 – 3 3 SRE 504T Wind Energy 3 – 3 3 SRE 506T Renewable Energy: Policies, Planning & Audit 3 – 3 3 SRE 51XT Elective-I 3 – 3 3 SRE 52XT Elective-II 3 – 3 3 SRE 508P Seminar / NPTEL-II – 2 2 1 SRE 510P Energy Lab-II – 4 4 2 Total 15 06 20 18 Weightage for Theory Courses: During Semester Evaluation Weightage – 50% End Semester Examination Weightage –  50% Weightage for Lab./ Project Courses: During Semester Evaluation Weightage – 60% End Semester Examination Weightage –  40% * Industrial Visits: Minimum One. * Invited Talks: Minimum One. List of Electives (Any three electives are to be offered, selecting one from each group). Elective I Sr. No. Course No. Title 1. SRE 512T Computational Fluid Dynamics 2. SRE 514T Solar Refrigeration & Air-conditioning 3. SRE 516T Smart Grid 4. SRE 518T Power Quality Elective II Sr. No. Course No. Title 1. SRE 522T Bio- Energy Technologies 2. SRE 524T Sustainable Buildings 1. SRE 526T Fuel Cell Technologies 2. SRE 528T Hybrid Electric Vehicles THIRD SEMESTER Course  No. Title Schedule of Teaching Credit Point Lecture Tutorial Practical Total SRE 531 P Preparatory Work for Dissertation 0 0 20 20 10 20 10 NOTE:   The preparatory work for Dissertation shall be evaluated by a committee comprising the following {on the basis of one mid semester seminar and one end semester seminar presented and one end semester report submitted by the candidate}. Coordinator or faculty nominee proposed by the Coordinator Dissertation Supervisor(s) Two senior most faculty members of the department (as per strength) FOURTH SEMESTER Course  No. Title Schedule of Teaching Credit Point Lecture Tutorial Practical Total SRE 532P Dissertation 0 0 32 32 16 32 16 NOTE: i)    The Dissertation shall be evaluated by a committee comprising the following through presentation cum viva-voce examination 1.  Coordinator or faculty nominee proposed by the Coordinator 2.   Dissertation Supervisor(s) 3.   One external expert appointed by the school ii)   For award of grade, following criteria to be used Grade Conditions to be fulfilled A+ One paper accepted/published in SCI Journal A One good quality paper accepted/published in non-paid journal or two good quality papers presented in International/National Conference.* B One good quality paper presented in International Conference C/D In other cases * Conference organized by IIT/NIT/Premier R & D organization Non-Credit Based Dissertation Evaluation Course Code SRE 501 T Course Title Renewable Energy Sources Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Course Type PC Course Learning Objectives To provide knowledge of solar energy concept and applications. To impart knowledge of geothermal, ocean and tidal energy and their applications. To understand the design of wind mills and applications. To understand the turbines and generators for small scale hydroelectric generation. To understand the important parts of a biogas plant, design and principle of bio-diesel. Course Contents Unit-I Energy Related Environmental Problems and Renewable Energy Technologies Acid rain, ozone layer depletion, global climate change, history of solar energy, introduction and scope of solar energy, solar collectors and its applications, introduction and scope of bio energy, biogas, bio fuels and its applications, introduction to wind energy, wind energy potential in India and world, wind farms and mills & their applications, small scale hydroelectric, classification of small hydro power stations, advantages and limitations of small scale hydro-electric. Unit-II Geothermal and Oceans Energy Potential sites, estimations of geothermal power, nature of geothermal sites, hot-dry rocks resources, magma resources, systems for energy generation, applications of geothermal energy, environmental issues, basic theory of ocean thermal energy conversion, potential and application of technologies, basic theory of wave energy, potential and technologies, basic theory of tidal energy, potential and technologies, methods of ocean thermal electric power generation. Unit-III M.H.D. Generator and Thermoelectric Generators Introduction, Principle of working, different types of M.H.D. generators, M.H.D. materials, M.H.D. power generation systems, economic aspects of M.H.D. generation. Introduction, thermoelectric effects, thermoelectric generator, types of thermoelectric generators, economic aspects of thermoelectric generation. Unit-IV Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Energy Introduction, principle of fuel cells, thermodynamic analysis of fuel cells, types of fuel cells, fuel cell batteries, applications of fuel cells. Hydrogen as a renewable energy source, sources of hydrogen, fuel for vehicles, hydrogen production- direct electrolysis of water, thermal decomposition of water, biological and biochemical methods of hydrogen production. Reference Books Twidell & A. W. Wier, Renewable energy resources, English Language book, Society I E & F N Spon (1986). N. K. Bansal, M. Kleeman & M. Mielee, Renewable Conversion Technology, Tata Mc Graw Hill, New Delhi. T. John and W. Tony, Renewable Energy Resources, Taylor & Francis. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Get the knowledge of solar concepts, solar collector and solar desalination. Get the knowledge of geothermal applications, energy generation, power generation by tidal energy. Get the knowledge of design of wind mills and energy estimations and also wind energy applications. Get the knowledge the turbines and generators for small scale hydroelectric generation and advantages and limitations of small scale hydro-electric. Get the knowledge of design of bio gas plant and bio diesel applications. Course Code SRE 502 T Course Title Solar Photovoltaic Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PC Course Learning Objectives Understand about the solar PV systems. Understand the fundamentals of solar PV power plants. Gain knowledge about the PV system design. Course Contents Unit-I Solar PV Systems Fundamentals of solar cell, semiconductors as basis for solar cells materials and properties, P-N junction, sources of losses and prevention, estimating power and energy demand, site selection, land requirements, choice of modules, economic comparison, balance of systems. Overview of different types of solar cells/panels. photovoltaic industries in India and world. Unit-II Solar PV Power Plants Array design, inverter types and characteristics, power conditioning system: working algorithms, performance analysis; design of stand alone, hybrid and grid interactive plants, commissioning of solar PV plant. Unit-III Off-Grid and On-Grid PV Applications Introduction, commonly used off-grid PV products, grid-connected rooftop solar power plant, solar net-metering. Unit-IV PV System Design Considerations Introduction, design and structure concept, current-voltage characteristics, sizing of PV system, cost of PV system. Reference Books Suneel Deambi , Photovoltaic System Design: Procedures, Tools and Applications, CRC Press 2016. A. Freundlich, P. Verlinden, Wvan Sark, Photovoltaic Solar Energy: From Fundamentals to Applications, John Wiley & Sons Ltd. 2017. Md. Rabiul Islam, Faz Rahman, Wei Xu, Advances in Solar Photovoltaic Power Plants, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2016. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand the fundamental of photovoltaic systems. Apply the knowledge of off-grid and on- grid systems. Course Code SRE 503 T Course Title Solar Thermal Systems Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Course Type PC Course Learning Objectives To understand the sun earth relationship. To design concentrating and non concentrating type solar thermal systems. To understand the fundamentals of thermal energy storage. Course Contents Unit-I Solar Radiation Location on earth, celestial sphere, horizon and equatorial system, description of the various angles depicting the relation between sun and earth, coordinates transformation, solar time, obliquity and declination of the sun, apparent motion of the sun, sun rise and sun set time, east west time, analysis of the direct daily solar radiation on any arbitrarily located surface, numerical problems. Unit-II Flat Plate Collectors Performance analysis, transmissivity of the cover system, overall loss coefficient and heat transfer correlations, collector efficiency factor, collector heat removal factor, effects of various parameters on the performance. Evacuated Tube Collectors Principle of working, advantages of ETC over FPC, Types of evacuated tubes, Thermal Analysis. Unit-III Concentrating Collectors Methods of classification, description of cylindrical parabolic collector, orientation and tracking modes, performance analysis, overall loss coefficient and heat transfer correlations, parametric study of collector performance in different modes of operation, compound parabolic collector geometry, tracking requirements, parabolic dish collector. Thermal Energy Storage Introduction, sensible heat storage: liquids, solids, analysis of liquid storage tank in well mixed condition and thermal stratification, analysis of packed-bed storage, latent heat storage, thermo chemical storage. Unit-IV Solar Pond Introduction, description of solar pond, transmissivity of the system, temperature distribution and collection efficiency, experimental studies. Solar Thermal Power Generation: Introduction, parabolic trough systems, heliostat System, central receiver system. Reference Books G.N. Tiwari and S. Suneja, Solar Thermal Engineering Systems, Narosa Publishers. S.P. Sukhatme, Solar Energy, Tata McGrew Hill Company Ltd., New Delhi. H.P. Garg, Advancment in Solar Energy Technology, D. Reidel Publishing Co. H. P. Garg, Solar Thermal Energy Storage, D. Reidel Publishing Company (1985). C. Julian Chen, Physics of Solar Energy, John Wiley and Sons. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand the tracking requirements of the thermal solar systems. Design and analyse the solar collectors. Understand the concept of solar pond and thermal power generation systems. Course Code SRE 504 T Course Title Wind Energy Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course code) Course Type PC Course Learning Objectives To impart understanding of various basic aspects related to wind energy power generation systems and technology. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Historical developments of Wind Energy, energy and power in wind, wind energy dynamics, power extracted, axial thrust on turbines, torque, maximum power and Betz coefficient, wind turbine operational characteristic, site selection. Wind energy conversion system, basic integration issues related to wind power, status of Wind power in India. Unit-II Construction of Wind Turbines HAWT and VAWT constructions, basic rotor differences, relative merits and operational difficulties, lift and drag turbines, upwind and down wind machines. Unit-III Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS) Basic components, fixed and variable speeds systems, type of generators used-D.C., induction and synchronous machines; grid, standalone, and hybrid schemes. Unit-IV Power Quality and Stability of Wind Energy Power electronics based controllers used with WECS, power quality, impact of constant and variable speed wind turbines on transient stability of power system, wind system economic components, economic analysis methods, cost of on-shore and off-shore wind turbines. Reference Books V. Yaramasu and B.Wu, Model Predictive Control of Wind Energy Conversion Systems,Wiley- IEEE Press, 2016. E. W. Golding, The Generation of Electricity by Wind farms, E & F. N. Spon Ltd, London, (U.K). 1976. C. G. Justus, Winds and Systems Performance, Franklin Institute Press, Philadelphia (USA) 1978. L. Gary, Johnson, Wind Energy System, Prentice Hall Inc. Englewood Cliffs. N. J. (USA) 1985. L. L. Freris, Wind Energy Conversion System, Prentice Hall, (U.K.) 1990. Thomas Ackermann, Wind Power in Power System, John Wiley & Sons Ltd., 2005. S. Heier, Grid Integration of Wind Energy Conversion Systems. Wiley, New York (USA). Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Ability to differentiate types of wind energy conversion systems. Status of wind energy in India. Various aspects of selection of wind energy sites. Course Code SRE 505 T Course Title Power Electronics and Control Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Nil Course Type Course Learning Objectives This give an introduction to the recent developments of power electronics from components, topology and control techniques. This course drives on the application requirements of power electronics. This is a higher level of subject that will help to work in demanding areas of power electronics in renewable energy systems Course Contents Unit- I Introduction Principle of SCR, MOSFET & IGBT and their characteristics, dv/dt & di/dt protection, snubber circuit, SCR commutation circuits, Need of series & parallal connections, Numerical. Unit -II Rectifiers Single phase uncontrolled & controlled rectifiers and their analysis, Three phase controlled rectifiers and their analysis, Analysis with various loads in all case, Numerical. Unit -III Inverters Single phase Voltage Source Inverters, Principle of operation of single-phase full bridge VSIs and their analysis, Three-phase bridge inverter with 1200 and 1800 modes of operation, PWM Techniques and their performance, Numerical. Unit -IV DC Converters and case studies Principle of operation of DC buck, boost & buck-boost converters, PWM rectifiers, Simple closed loop Renewable Energy conversion system, Numerical. Reference Books G. K. Dubey, S. R. Doradla, A. Joshi and R. M. K. Sinha, Thyristorised Power Controllers, New Age International Private Limited. 2008 N. Mohan, T. M. Undeland and W. P. Robbins, Power Electronics Converters, Applications and Design, 3rd 2008 Ed., Wiley India. M. H. Rashid, Power Electronics Circuits Devices and Applications, 3rd 2008 Ed Pearson Education. C. W. Lander, Power Electronics, 3rd Ed., McGraw-Hill 2007 International Book Company. R. S. Ramshaw, Power Electronics Semiconductor Switches, 1993 Chapman & Hall. Bin Wu, High-Power Converters and AC Drives, IEEE Press, A John Wiley & Sons, Inc Publication, New York, 2006. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to To know characteristics of various devices. Knowledge about rectifiers , inverters & converters Course Code SRE 506 T Course Title Renewable Energy: Policies, Planning & Audit Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PC Course Learning Objectives To become familiar with electricity sector and its planning. To become familiar with the policies and regulations of renewable energy systems. To study energy auditing at various stages of an electrical system. To study planning procedures and financing of renewable energy projects. To impart knowledge regarding development issues of renewable energy sector in our country. Course Contents Unit-I Energy Policies International energy policies, Impact of energy on economy, energy and environmental policies, energy policy issues: fossil fuels, renewable energy, energy strategy for future, energy conservation act, electricity act & its features. Unit-II Energy Planning General power system, overview of generation, transmission and distribution, planning issues, generation, substation and network expansion planning, reactive power planning,  power system planning under uncertainty, risk based power system planning. Unit-III Economics Financial feasibility evaluation of renewable energy technologies, social cost – benefit analysis of renewable energy technologies, fiscal, financial and other incentives for promotion of renewable energy systems and their effect on financial and economic viability, electricity tariff types. Unit-IV Energy Auditing & Management Energy auditing: types and objectives, reactive power management: capacitor sizing, degree of compensation, capacitor losses, location, placement, and maintenance. efficient lighting management: energy efficient light sources, energy conservation in lighting schemes. Energy conservation management. Reference Books B.V. Desai, Energy Policy, Wiley Eastern. A. S.  Pabla, Electrical Power Systems Planning, McMillan Publishers, India, 1998. C. Wayne, Turner, Energy Management /Handbook, Lilburn, The Fairmont Press, 2001. Albert Thumann, Handbook of Energy Audits, Fairmont Press 5th Edition (1998). G. Mankiw, Principle of Economics, 6th Edition. M. Munasinghe and P. Meier, Energy Policy Analysis and Modelling, Cambridge Press, 1993. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Familiar with electrical sector markets and models. Understand the regulations and policies of renewable energy systems. Know the techniques for energy auditing at various stages of electrical systems. Familiar with financing issues of renewable energy projects. Course  Code SRE 511 T Course  Title Small Hydro Power Plant Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course  Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives Understand the fundamentals of small hydro power plant. Overall development of small hydro power plant. Gain knowledge about the various types of generators & hydraulic turbines. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Necessity and importance of harnessing small hydro power,  Status of small hydro power plant worldwide, advantages and disadvantages of small hydro power plant, operational terminology, legal requirements, national policies, laws and related economics. Unit-II Small Hydro Power Plant Development Classification of  hydropower  plants, working principle & site selection of a small hydro power plant, run-of-the-river and storage schemes; power channels, desalting arrangements, forebay tank and balancing reservoir, penstock and power house different types of project reports and their relevance; different methods of project implementation. Unit-III Generators Types of generator: synchronous and induction, sizing and specification of single and three phase generators,  power factor and its correction methodologies, excitation systems; electro-mechanical and digital governor, electronic load controller, types of relays, contactors and control schemes for small hydro power stations. Unit-IV Hydraulic Turbines Classification and working principles of hydro turbines, different components of impulse and reaction turbines; design concepts of hydro turbines, non conventional hydro turbines; characteristics of hydro turbines, selection of hydro turbines based on specific speed and their optimal selection. Reference Books D. Reimert, Protective Relaying for Power Generation Systems, Taylor and Francis. D. M. Clemen , Hydro Plant Electrical Systems, HCI Publication. A. Harvey, A. Brown, and P. Hettiarachi, Micro Hydro Design Manual, Intermediate Technology. J. J. Fritz. Small and Mini Hydro Power Systems: Resource Assessment and Project Feasibility, McGraw Hills. Gulliver, J. S. and Arndt, E.A., Handbook of Hydro Electric Engineering, McGraw Hills. M. L. Kausal, and G. Chauhan , Planning and Design of Small Hydroelectric Projects, (Publication No. 305), Central Board of Irrigation and Power. Guidelines to Develop Small Hydropower Plants, ESHA. Course Outcomes At the end of course student will be able to Understand the overall development of small hydro power plant. Know the application of generators, excitation systems, load controllers, relays for small hydro power plant. Understand the working of various hydraulic turbines. Course Code SRE 512 T Course Title Computational Fluid Dynamics Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To be able to understand the concepts of PDEs, their application to CFD problems and fundamentals of discretization. To be able to solve problems related to heat transfer and fluid flow using Finite difference and finite volume methods. To be able to understand the limitations and errors involved in solution to CFD problems. Course Contents Unit- I Introduction Introduction to C.F.D., models of the flow, governing differential equations – continuity equation, momentum equation, energy equation, Nervier- Stokes equation, physical boundary conditions. Unit- II Mathematical Behaviour of Governing Equation Classification of quasi linear partial differential equation, general method of determining the classification of partial differential equation, hyperbolic, parabolic, elliptic equations. Discretization Methods Finite difference methods, difference equations, explicit & implicit approach, errors & analysis of stability, basics of finite control volume method. Unit- III Heat Conduction Problem Solution of one dimensional heat conduction through a pin, solution of two dimensional steady state and transient heat conduction problems, heat conduction problems in cylindrical coordinates: axisymmetric and non-axisymmetric problems. Heat Conduction With Convection & Diffusion Steady state one dimensional convection and diffusion, upwinding, exact solution, exponential scheme, hybrid scheme, power law scheme, discretization equation for two dimensions & three dimensions, false diffusion. Unit- IV Fluid Flow Problem Viscous incompressible flow, solution of the couette flow problem by F.D.M., calculation of the flow field using stream function – vorticity method numerical algorithms for solving complete Navier-Stokes equation – MAC method; SIMPLE method. Reference Books Suhas. V. Patankar, Numerical Heat Transfer and Fluid Flow, Hemisphere John. D. Anderson, Jr, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Mc Graw Hill. Anil .W. Date, Introduction to Computational Fluid Dynamics, Cambridge University Press Niyogi, Chakraborty and Laha, Introduction to Computational Fluid Dynamics, Pearson Education. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand the concepts of PDEs, their application to CFD problems and fundamentals of discretization. Solve problems related to heat transfer and fluid flow using finite difference and finite volume methods. To understand the limitations and errors involved in solution to CFD problems. Course Code SRE 513  T Course Title Design of Experiments Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Course Type PE Course learning Objectives To introduce the concept of undertaking experimental work. To expose students to different types of experimental designs. Unit- I Introduction Objectives for experimental designs. Basic design concepts. Steps for the design of    experiments. Types of experimental designs, Analysis of means, Experimental designs and six sigma. Unit -II Completely Randomized Design Model for a completely randomized design with a single factor. ANOM for a completely randomized design, ANOM with unequal variances, randomized block design, incomplete block designs, latin square design, Graeco – Latin square design. Unit -III Full Factorial and Fractional Factorial Designs with Two Levels Nature of factorial designs. deleterious effects of interactions. Effect estimates. the 23 Design. built-in –replication. role of expected mean squares in experimental design, 2k-1 Designs. Effect estimates and regression coefficients, 2k-2 Designs. basic concepts; design efficiency, John’s 3/4 designs. Unit -IV Robust Design DOE and Taguchi approach; experimental design using orthogonal arrays; experimental design with two-level factors only; experimental designs with three and four level factors; A ANOV ; analysis using signal- to- noise ratios; some case studies; QT4 software; response surface methodology; response surface experimentation; process improvement wirh steepest ascent; analysis of second – order response surfaces; central composite designs; box – behnken designs; analyzing the fitted surface; design-expert software. Reference Books Thomas P.  Ryan John Wiley, Modern Experimental Design. Myers R. H, Montgomery D. C. John Wiley Response Surface Methodology. Ranjit K. Roy, John Wiley, Design of Experiments Using the Taguchi Approach . Course Outcomes At the end of the course, student will be able to Become capable to understand experimental investigation in any field of engineering. Learn effectively Robust Design Techniques like Taguchi Methods & RSM for solving all kinds of Industrial problems. Course Code SRE 514 T Course Title Solar Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To provide understanding of fundamental concepts of refrigeration and air conditions. To provide fundamental knowledge desiccant material and desiccant air conditioning systems. To provide understanding of fundamental concepts the adsorption refrigeration system. To understand the design of solar powered absorption refrigeration system and its applications. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Basics of refrigeration and air conditioning, comfort zones, potential and scope of solar cooling and heating, fundamentals of conventional vapour compression system and vapour absorption system. solar cooling technology: solar electrical cooling, solar thermal cooling:- open cycles (liquid and solid desiccant system), closed cycle (absorption cycle, adsorption cycle, solar radiation cooling), thermo mechanical systems, steam ejector cycle, solar combined power/cooling. Unit-II Desiccant Air Conditioning Desiccant materials, classification of desiccant material, fundamentals of desiccant material:  adsorption process, regeneration process, adsorption rate, regeneration rate, factor affecting adsorption and regeneration of desiccant material, heating/humidification, cooling/dehumidification, desiccant dehumidifiers: desiccant bed, desiccant wheel, desiccant coated heat exchanger, solar powered desiccant air conditioning system. Unit-III Adsorption Refrigeration System Introduction, principle of adsorption, thermodynamics of adsorption cycles: – basic adsorption cycle, heat recovery adsorption refrigeration cycle, mass recovery adsorption refrigeration cycle, thermal wave cycle, convective thermal wave cycle, intermittent adsorption systems: silica-gel/water and silica-gel methanol systems, zeolite–water systems, activated carbon–methanol systems, activated carbon–ammonia systems. Unit-IV Absorption Refrigeration System Absorption cycle of operation, maximum, COP, properties of solution, aqua-ammonia solution, simple absorption system, h-x diagram, ammonia enrichment process and water -lithium bromide refrigeration system, single-effect solar absorption cycle, half-effect solar absorption cooling system, double-effect solar-assisted absorption cooling systems, diffusion absorption solar cooling system, hybrid solar absorption cooling systems. Reference Books G. Rogerio Oliveira and Centro De Alegrete, Solar Powered Sorption Refrigeration  and Air Conditioning, Nova Publishers. J. C. MC Veigh and A. A. M. Sayigh, Solar Air Conditioning and Refrigeration, Pergamon. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Get the knowledge of vapor compression and vapor absorption system. Get the knowledge of desiccant air conditioning systems. Get the knowledge of design of adsorption refrigeration system. Get the knowledge of absorption refrigeration system. Course  Code SRE 515 T Course Title Optimization Techniques Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives Understand the fundamental concepts of optimization techniques. Understand the advantages and limitations associated with the large-scale optimization techniques when applied to engineering problems. Implement selected optimization techniques for constrained and unconstrained problems in both single and multivariable commonly occurring in engineering systems and other specific areas. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Introduction to optimization theory, importance in solving system engineering problems, convex sets & functions, supporting & separating hyper planes, dual cones and generalized inequalities, multi objective optimization. Unit-II Linear Programming Linear programming problem: Formulation, simplex method, two phase simplex method, dual simplex method, duality in linear programming, sensitivity analysis, Integer linear programming, cutting plane method, linear programming approach to game theory, dynamic programming problems. Unit-III Nonlinear Programming Introduction to nonlinear programming: unconstrained optimization—formulation of quadratic optimization problem, Newton raphson method, gradient method, constrained optimization—quadratic programming, separable programming. Unit-IV Convex Optimization Convex optimization problem: linear optimization problem, quadratic optimization problem, complexity of convex programming. Reference Books S. S. Rao, Optimization Theory & Application, Wiley Eastern Ltd. Boyd & Vandenberghe , Convex Optimization, Cambridge University Press. A. Taha Hamdy, Operational Research : An Introduction, Pearson Prentice Hall, New Jersey. D. Bertsekas , Nonlinear Programming, Athena Scientific, Nashua, USA. V. Chvatal,  Linear Programming ,W. H. Freeman, New York. R. Fletcher, Practical Methods of Optimization, Wiley, New York. Course Outcomes After the successful completion of the course, the students will be able to Understand the different optimization algorithms, multidisciplinary design optimization; Formulate optimization problems, given the description of a real problem. Understand and apply the concept of optimality criteria for various types of optimization problems in different areas of engineering. Solve various constrained and unconstrained problems in single variable as well as multivariable. Utilize the optimization techniques in real life situations. Course Code SRE 516 T Course Title Smart Grid Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives Understand about the smart grid and emerging technologies. Understand about the Smart Metering. Learn the technologies that are required for the realization of smart grid. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Early smart grid initiatives, overview of the technologies required for the smart grid,        information security for the smart grid. Unit-II Smart Grid Introduction to grid connectivity of RE systems, smart grid and emerging technologies, operating principles and models of smart gird components, key technologies for generation, networks, loads and their control capabilities; decision-making tools. Unit-III Smart Metering Introduction, evolution of electricity metering, key components of smart metering, overview of the hardware used for smart meters, smart metering protocols. Unit-IV Distribution Management Systems Structure and main components of a distribution management system, SCADA, distribution system modeling, new trends for smart grids, topology analysis, power flow analysis. Reference Books: Nick Jenkins, Janaka Ekanayake, [et al.] Smart Grid Technology And Applications, Wiley India Ltd. Ali Keyhani, Muhammad Marwali, Smart Power Grids 2011, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2012. Ali Keyhani, Design of Smart Power Grid Renewable Energy Systems, Wiley-IEEE Press 2016. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand the fundamental of Smart grid. Understand the concept of Distribution management system. Understand the fundamental of Smart metering. Course Code SRE 518 T Course Title Power Quality Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Power Systems, Power Electronics & Signals and Systems. Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To understand the various power quality phenomenon, their origin and monitoring and mitigation methods. To understand the effects of various power quality phenomenon in various equipment. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Electric power quality phenomena  IEC and IEEE definitions , power quality disturbances, voltage fluctuations , transients , unbalance ,waveform distortion , power frequency variations. Unit-II Voltage Quality Voltage variations , voltage sags and short interruptions , flicker-longer duration variations ,sources , range and impact on sensitive circuits , standards , solutions and mitigations , equipment and techniques. Unit-III Transients Transients , origin and classifications , capacitor switching transient , lightning , load switching  impact on users, protection, mitigation. harmonics , sources , definitions & standards , impacts calculation and simulation , harmonic power flow , mitigation and control techniques , filtering ,passive and active. Unit-IV Power Quality Conditioners Power quality conditioners, shunt and series compensators, DSTATCOM , dynamic voltage restorer , unified power quality conditioners , Case studies. Reference Books G. T. Heydt, Electric Power Quality, Stars in a Circle Publications, Indiana, 2nd edition 1996. M. H. J. Bollen, Understanding Power Quality Problems, Voltage Sags and Interruptions, IEEE Press, New York, 2000. J. Arrillaga, Watson, N. R., S. Chen, Power System Quality Assessment, Wiley, New York, 2000. R. C. Duagan, M. F. Mcgranaghan and H. W. Beaty, Electric Power System Quality, McGraw-Hill, 2001. N. G. Hingorani and L. Gyugyi, Understanding FACTS, IEEE Press, Delhi, 2001. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Power quality and the compensation techniques. Recognize recent developments in design aspects of renewable power conversion systems. Course Code SRE 521 T Course Title Life Cycle Assessment of Renewable Systems Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To be able to understand the characteristics of life cycle assessment. To be able to understand the risk and life cycle framework for sustainability. To be able to understand the life cycle assessment of renewable energy sources. Course Contents Unit-I Life Cycle Analyses An introduction to sustainability concept and life cycle analyses, introduction to material flow and waste management, study of water resources and food nexus. Main Characteristics of Life Cycle Assessment What is LCA?, role of LCA in relation to products, role of LCA in wider applications, strength and limitations of LCA, LCA as part of a tool box, management of LCA projects. Unit-II Life Cycle Framework Risk and life cycle framework for sustainability: introduction, risk, environmental risk assessment, example chemicals and health effects, character of environmental problems. Unit-III Life Cycle Assessment of Renewable Energy Sources Life cycle assessment of biodiesel from palm oil, life-cycle assessment of bio methane from lignocelluloses biomass, application of life cycle assessment on agricultural production systems with reference to lignocelluloses biogas and bio ethanol production as transport fuels. Unit-IV Life Cycle Inventory and Impact Assessments Life cycle inventory and impact assessments, unit processes and system boundary, data   quality, procedure for life cycle impact assessment, LCIA in practice with examples, interpretation of LCIA results. ISO Terminologies Factors for good LCA study, ISO terminologies, LCA steps recap, chemical release and fate and transport, and green sustainable materials. Reference Books B. Jeroen, Guinee, Hand Book on Life Cycle Assessment, Kluwer Academic Publications. K.Walter, Background and Future Prospects in Life Cycle                                                                      Assessment, Springer. Anoop Singh , Life Cycle Assessment of Renewable Energy sources, Springer. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand the characteristics of life cycle assessment. Understand the risk and life cycle framework for sustainability. Understand the life cycle assessment of renewable energy sources. Course Code SRE 522 T Course Title Bio-Energy Technologies Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PC Course Learning Objectives To provide knowledge of bio-energy and bio-gas. To impart knowledge of applications of  bio-energy. To understand the working of  bio-gas plant. To understand Bio-mass resource potential and assessment for energy generation. Course Contents Unit-I Basics of Bio-Energy Introduction to biogas, utility of biogas, chemical composition, properties of biomass, up gradation of biogas, different types of materials used for the production of biogas, size reduction, briquetting, drying, storage and handling of biomass. Unit-II Biomass and Bio-Fuels Energy plantation, biogas generation, types of biogas plants, applications of biogas and energy from wastes, introduction to anaerobic digestion technology, different stages of production of biogas. characteristics of bio-diesel, materials and methods, and its applications, alcoholic fermentation process, technologies and its applications. Unit-III Operational Parameters Different factors contribute the production of biogas like retention period, loading rate, temperature, carbon nitrogen (CN) ratio, acidity and alkalinity (PH), presence of toxic substances, kinetics and mechanism- high rate digesters for industrial waste water treatment. Unit-IV Biogas plant Important parts of a biogas plant and designing a biogas plant. different categories of bio-gas plants like domestic, institutional and community. classification of biogas plants such as batch type, semi continues type and continuous type, incineration-processing for liquid fuel production. Different Models On a study about different models of biogas plants like fixed dome model, floating dome model, RCC digester with flexible gas collector, geo-membrane digester, tube digester, lagoon digester. portable biogas plants, pre-fabricated biogas plants and also the plants constructed at site. Reference Books K .M. Mital, Biogas Systems: Principles and Applicationsby, New Age Publishers. A Chakraverthy, Biotechnology and Alternative Technologies for Utilization of Biomass or Agricultural Wastes by Oxford & IBH publishing Co, 1989. R. S. Khoiyangbam, Navindu Gupta and Sushil Kumar, Biogas Technology: Towards Sustainable Development, The Energy and Resources Institute. B. T. Nijaguna, Biogas Technology, New Age International Publishers. Georg M. Guebitz, Biogas Science and Technology, Springer. Brad Hill, Biogas Technology and Principles, N. Y. Research Press. Arthur Wellinger, Jerry D. Murphy, David Baxter, The Biogas Handbook: Science, Production and Applications, Wood Head Publishing. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Get the knowledge of bio-mass resources and bio-energy. Analyze practical problems in bio-gas plants. Utilize bio-mass resources and bio-energy concepts in design of bio-gas plants. Understand bio-mass resource potential and assessment for energy generation. Course Code SRE 523 T Course Title Converters For Renewable Energy Systems Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Power Electronics course in UG with knowledge on basics of semiconductor switches, basics of converter topology (AC-DC,AC-AC & DC-DC), basic control techniques of Power Electronic equipment Course Type : Course Learning Objectives This give an introduction to the recent developments of power electronics from components, topology and control techniques. This course drives on the application requirements of power electronics. This is a higher level of subject that will help to work in demanding areas of power electronics in renewable energy systems Course Contents Unit -I Advanced Converters Drawbacks of conventional converters & Inverters, Multi-pulse converters & Inverters, Improved power quality ac-dc converters such as single-phase buck, boost, buck-boost ac/dc converters, PWM (Pulse width modulated) based single- phase, three-phase VSC (Voltage source converters), Current Source Inverters. Unit-II Multilevel Converters/ Inverters Advance converter topologies for PEE – Interleaved converters, multilevel converters (Cascaded H-Bridge, Diode clamped, NPC, Flying capacitor) multi pulse PWM current source converters, advanced control schemes, Capacitor unbalance Unit-III PWM Schemes Conventional PWM schemes & their performance, Multilevel PWM Schemes, Hybrid PWM schemes, Power converter topologies for solar and wind– Control of dc-dc converter, inverters and relevant. Unit-IV Case Studies Literature- MLI Applications in Drives and power quality, Hybrid converters- Inverters- Closed Loop Renewable Energy conversion systems- PV power conversion using MLIs. Reference Books N. Mohan, T. M. Undeland and W. P. Robbins, Power Electronics Converter Application and Design, ThirdEdition, John Willey & Sons, 2004. M. H. Rashid, Power Electronics, Circuits, Devices and Applications, Pearson, 2002, India. K. Billings, Switch Mode Power Supply Handbook, McGraw-Hill, 1999, Boston. Bin Wu, High-Power Converters and AC Drives, IEEE Press, A John Wiley & Sons, Inc Publication, New York,2006. Relevant literature review for case studies and course applications. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand the principles of operation of advanced PWM converters. Appraise various advanced converter topologies and the suitable control schemes. Recognize recent developments in design aspects of renewablepower conversion systems. Course Code SRE 524 T Course Title Sustainable Buildings Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To be able to understand solar passive building and green building concepts. To be able to analyses heat transmission in buildings. To be able to estimate the building load. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Bio-climatic classification of India, solar passive building and green building concepts, national building code, policies on energy efficient and green buildings. Thermal Comfort Criteria and various parameters, psychometric chart, thermal indices. Indoor air quality; requirements in residential, commercial & hospital buildings. Unit-II Passive Heating Concepts Introduction, direct and indirect heat gain, solar green houses, solar wall, solar trumbo wall. Passive Cooling Concepts Evaporative cooling, evaporative air and water coolers, radioactive cooling, application of wind, water and earth for cooling, use of shading, paints and cavity walls for cooling. Unit-III Design for Human Comfort Psychometric chart, thermal indices, climate and comfort zones, significance of air temperature, calculation of instantaneous heat gain through building envelope, calculation of solar radiation on buildings, building orientation, introduction to design of shading devices, overhangs, factors that affect energy use in buildings, ventilation and its significance. Unit-IV Heat Transmission in Buildings Surface co-efficient: air cavity, internal and external surfaces, overall thermal transmittance, wall and windows, heat transfer due to ventilation/infiltration, internal heat transfer, solar temperature, decrement factor, phase lag, day lighting. Estimation of Building Loads Steady state method, network method, numerical method, passive solar designs of building thumb rules for design of buildings and building codes, typical design of selected buildings in various climatic zones. Reference Books M. S. Sodha, N. K. Banaal, P. K. Bansal, A. Rumaar and M. A. S. Malik, Solar Passive: Building Science and Design, Pergamon Preen (1986). Jamee, L. Threlked, Thermal Environment Engineering, Prentice Hall, INC-, Raglevood Cliffs, New Jersey (1970). T. A. Markus and R. N. Morris, Building, Climate and Energy Spotswood Ballantype Ltd-, London U.K. (1980). H. P. Garg et.al, Solar Thermal Energy Storage, D. Reidel Publishing Company (1985). V. Alexiades & A. D. Solomon, Mathematical Modelling of Melting and Freezing Process Hemisphere Publishing Corporation, Washington (1993). Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand solar passive building and green building concepts. Analyses heat transmission in buildings. Estimate the building load. Course Code SRE 525 T Course Title Power System Operation and Control Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To have an overview of power system operation and control. To model power-frequency dynamics and to design power-frequency controller. To model reactive power-voltage interaction and the control actions to be implemented for maintaining the voltage profile against varying system load. Course Contents Unit I Introduction System Load , variation , load characteristics , load curves and load-duration curve (daily, weekly and annual) – load factor – diversity factor. Importance of load forecasting and simple techniques of forecasting. An overview of power system operation and control. . Unit II Real Power – Frequency Control Speed governing mechanism and  modelling , speed-load characteristics , load sharing between two synchronous machines in parallel. Control area concept LFC control of a single area. System. Static and dynamic analysis of uncontrolled and controlled cases. Integration of economic dispatch control with LFC. Two-area system , modelling , static analysis of uncontrolled. . Unit III Reactive Power–Voltage Control Reactive power control. Excitation systems , modelling. Static and dynamic analysis ,stability compensation , generation and absorption of reactive power. Relation between voltage, power and reactive power at a node – method of voltage control – tap-changing transformer. System level control using generator voltage magnitude setting, tap setting of OLTC transformer and MVAR injection of switched capacitors to maintain acceptable voltage profile and to minimize transmission loss. Unit-IV Computer Control of Power Systems Need of computer control of power systems. Concept of load dispatch centre and the functions , system monitoring – data acquisition and control. System hardware configuration – SCADA Reference Books J. Allen Wood and F. Wollenberg  Bruce, Power Generation, Operation and Control, John Wiley Sons, Inc, 2003. Chakrabarti & Halder, Power System Analysis: Operation and Control, Prentice Hall of India, 2004 Edition. D. P. Kothari and I. J. Nagrath, Modern Power System Analysis, Third Edition, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi, 2003. (For Chapters 1, 2 & 3) L. L. Grigsby, The Electric Power Engineering Hand Book, CRC Press & IEEE Press, 2001. Hadi Saadat, Power System Analysis, (For the chapters 1, 2, 3 and 4)11th Reprint 2007. P. Kundur, Power System Stability and Control, MC Craw Hill Publisher, USA, 1994. I. Elgerd Olle, Electric Energy Systems theory An introduction, Tata McGraw Hill Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to To understand the day to day operation of power system and the control actions to be implemented on the system To meet the minute-to-minute variation of system load demand. . Course Code SRE 526 T Course Title Fuel Cell Technologies Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course Code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To be able to understand fuel cell fundamentals. To be able to analyses the performance of fuel cell systems. To be able to understand construction and operation of fuel cell stack and fuel cell system. Course Contents Unit-I Overview of Fuel Cells Fuel cell, brief history, classification, working principle, need of fuel cells, fuel cell basic chemistry and thermodynamics, heat of reaction, theoretical electrical work and potential, theoretical fuel cell efficiency. Fuels for Fuel Cells Hydrogen, Hydrocarbon fuels, effect of impurities such as CO, S and others. Unit-II Fuel Cell Electrochemistry Electrode kinetics, Types of voltage losses, polarization curve, fuel cell efficiency, Tafel equation, exchange currents. Unit-III Fuel Cell Process Design Main PEM fuel cell components, materials, properties and processes: membrane, electrode, gas diffusion layer, bi-polar plates, fuel cell operating conditions: pressure, temperature, flow rates, humidity. Main components of solid-oxide fuel cells, cell stack and designs, electrode polarization, testing of electrodes, cells and short stacks, cell, stack and system  modelling. Unit-IV Fuel Processing Direct and in-direct internal reforming, reformation of hydrocarbons by steam, co2 and partial oxidation, direct electro-catalytic oxidation of hydrocarbons, carbon decomposition, sculpture tolerance and removal, using renewable fuels for SOFCs. Reference Books Gregor Hoogers, Fuel Cell Technology Hand Book, CRC Press, 2003. Karl Kordesch & Gunter Simader, Fuel Cells and Their Applications, VCH Publishers, NY, 2001. F. Barbir, PEM Fuel Cells: Theory and Practice (2nd Ed.) Elsevier/ Academic Press, 2013. C Subhash, Singal and Kevin Kendall, High Temperature Fuel Cells: Fundamentals, Design and Applications. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Understand fuel cell fundamentals. Analyse the performance of fuel cell systems. Understand construction and operation of fuel cell stack and fuel cell system. Apply the modelling techniques for fuel cell systems. Course Code SRE 527 T Course Title Energy Storage Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites  (Course code) Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives To provide understanding of fundamental concepts of heat storage materials. To provide fundamental knowledge sensible heat storage material and their applications. To provide understanding of fundamental concepts the latent heat storage materials. To provide fundamental knowledge thermo chemical heat storage material and their applications. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Introduction of energy storage technology, requirement for energy storage, Current status, Future prospect of storage, global energy and the required co2 reduction, maturity of different energy storage systems and cost effects. Unit-II Mechanical energy storage systems Flywheel energy storage (FES), pumped hydropower storage (PHS), and compressed-air energy storage (CAES). comparison and application state-of-arts including principle, function and deployments. technical characteristics in terms of power rating and discharge time, storage duration, energy efficiency, energy density, cycle life and life time, capital cost etc. case study/project based on mechanical energy storage. Unit-III Sensible Heat Storage Properties of solid sensible storage materials, classifications of sensible thermal energy storage systems, short-term (diurnal)/long-term (seasonal) storage, cool/low/medium/high-temperature storage, active and passive storage, working principle, sensible thermal storage technologies storage methods in space-heating system, solar power plant with sensible thermal energy storage, storage for solar-cooling system, thermal performance evaluations. Latent Heat Storage Main characteristics, PCMs classifications, moderate or high temperature PCM, specific PCM applications, mechanisms to improve phase change material applications, nanoparticle-encapsulated PCMs, cascades of PCM systems. Unit-IV Electrochemical energy storage Flow battery, battery, fuel cell, and capacitor. comparison and application state-of-arts including principle, function and deployments. technical characteristics of various electrochemical energy storage systems. case study/project Hydrogen energy Hydrogen economy, Hydrogen based FCV, hybrid electric vehicle, maintenance of FCV, safety. Reference Books Ataer, O. Ercan. Energy Storage Systems-Volume I (2009): 97, Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems. Kalaiselvam, S., and R. Parameshwaran. Thermal Energy Storage Technologies for Sustainability: Systems Design, Assessment and Applications. Elsevier. Fleischer, Amy S. Thermal Energy Storage Using Phase Change Material, Springer. Ibrahim D., Thermal Energy Storage: Systems and Applications, 2nd Edition, Wiley. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Get the knowledge of different heat storage materials. Get the knowledge of sensible heat storage materials. Get the knowledge of latent heat storage materials. Get the knowledge of thermo-chemical heat storage materials. Course Code SRE 528 T Course Title Hybrid Electric Vehicles Number of Credits 03 Prerequisites (Course Code) Power Systems, Power Electronics, Electrical Machines & Signals and Systems. Course Type PE Course Learning Objectives This course introduces the fundamental concepts, principles, analysis and design of hybrid and electric vehicles. This course goes deeper into the various aspects of hybrid and electric drive train such as their configuration, types of electric machines that can be used, energy storage devices, etc. Course Contents Unit-I Introduction Introduction to hybrid electric vehicles: history of hybrid and electric vehicles, social and environmental importance of hybrid and electric vehicles, impact of modern drive-trains on energy supplies. conventional vehicles: basics of vehicle performance, vehicle power source characterization, transmission characteristics, and mathematical models to describe vehicle performance. Unit-II Hybrid Electric Drive Hybrid electric drive-trains: basic concept of hybrid traction, introduction to various hybrid drive-train topologies, power flow control in hybrid drive-train topologies, fuel efficiency analysis. Unit-III Electric Propulsion Unit Introduction to electric components used in hybrid and electric vehicles, configuration and control of DC motor drives, configuration and control of induction motor drives, configuration and control of permanent magnet motor drives, configuration and control of switch reluctance motor drives, drive system efficiency. Unit-IV Case Studies Design of a hybrid electric vehicle (HEV), design of a battery electric vehicle (BEV). Reference Books Iqbal Hussein, Electric and Hybrid Vehicles, Design Fundamentals, CRC Press, 2003. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimi Gao, E Sebastian Gay, Ali Emadi, Modern Electric, Hybrid Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles Fundamentals, Theory and Design, CRC Press, 2004. James Larminie, John Lowry, Electric Vehicle Technology Explained, Wiley, 2003. Course Outcomes At the end of the course student will be able to Hybrid electric drives design and their applications. Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in