URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/smdp-resources-details/
Title: SMDP Resources details – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 503
--------------------------------------------------
SMDP Resources details – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra SMDP Resources details Special Manpower Development Program for Chip to System Design (SMDP-C2SD) Introduction Special Manpower Development Programme is initiated by Ministry of Communication & Information Technology, Government of India with a vision to make India, a significant player in VLSI Design and related software.  During the 9th Plan, DeitY aimed to increase India’s share of global VLSI Design market from 0.5% to 5%. Recognising the fact that availability of quality human resource will be a key catalyst for achieving this target, DeitY started the “Special Manpower Development Programme in VLSI design and related software (SMDP- Phase-I)” in 1998 involving 19 academic and research institutions categorised into Resource Centres (7 in number – 5 IITs, IISc, CEERI) and Participating Institutes (12 in number). This resulted in generating about 9300 trained personnel with hands-on experience in VLSI designing and related areas.The Phase II of the Special Manpower Development Programme in VLSI design and related software (SMDP II) was initiated in 2005 during the 10th Plan as a continuation of Phase-I with the aim to increase the global VLSI Design market share to around 15% by 2010. The Phase II of the SMDP project brought additional participating institutions under its purview making 32 as the total number of implementing organisations that includes 25 Participating Institutions (NITs and few others) with the mentorship of 7 Resource Centers (mainly IITs, IISc and CEERI). After the completion of SMDP Phase-II, an integrated program entitled “Special Manpower Development Program for Chips to System” has been initiated which not only aims on developing specialized manpower in VLSI but also emphasizes on development of working prototypes of System on Chip / System using ASICs / ICs designed in the program. This is a step towards bringing a System on Chip and System development culture in academic institutions in the country. This phase aims at broadening the VLSI Design & quality research base in the country and also take up new & distinctive initiatives which will ensure moving up in the value chain in System on Chip / system Development using mostly in-house designed ASICs / ICs. In the Phase –III SMDP-C2SD, there are 17 new Participating Institutions. The implementation structure of SMDP-C2SD is similar to SMDP Phase II project where Participating Institutions (PIs) will be associated with one of the Resource Centers (RCs). Resources provided under SMDP-C2SD The following state-of-art simulation tools and Hardware facility for VLSI device/circuit analysis and design have been provided under SMDP-C2SD programme. Hardwares Resources Specification Quantity 1 HP Z440 Workstations Xeon Processor, 500 GB, 4 GB RAM, 4GB Nvidia Graphics Card 5 2 FPGA Toolkits Zybo Zynq-7000 ARM/FPGA SoC 5 Nexys-4 DDR Artix-7 FPGA 5 Basys 3 Artix-7 FPGA 10 Software Resources 3 EDA Softwares Cadence EDA Tools 10 Mentor Graphics EDA Tools 100 Synopsys EDA Tools 5 4 TCAD Software Synopsys 2D TCAD 5 5 FPGA Implementation Software Xilinx Vivado 16 25 Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in