URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/sports-section-2/
Title: Sports Section – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 648
--------------------------------------------------
Sports Section – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Sports Section Our Institute lays adequate emphasis on student participation in various outdoor and indoor games and one standard 400 mtr. Track and Field Sports. Extensive and well laid out fields for sports and games are available in the campus. Badminton Courts, Tennis Courts, Cricket Pitch, Hockey Ground, Football Ground, Volleyball Court and Basketball Court with lights facility, Kabaddi Ground and a Stadium etc. are some of the facilities available to the students. Prof. I/C (Physical Education & Sports) and Students Activity & Sports Officer (SASO) help the students to develop their interest in games and coach them to acceptable standards. Gymnasium: Equipped with modern fitness equipment for strength and cardio training. Swimming Pool: An International-Standard Swimming Pool. The pool is equipped with three diving boards at heights of 3, 5, and 7 meters.It operates from March to October and is accessible to students, staff, Alumni and their Families.Membership requires an application and adherence to scheduled time slots. Indoor Badminton Hall: Indoor Badminton Hall provides a dedicated space for Badminton Enthusiasts to practice and compete, enhancing the indoor sports infrastructure of the Institute. The NIT Sports Complex serves as a hub for various events, including the Annual National Sports Meet celebrations.These events feature activities like Yoga Sessions, Inter-Faculty Tournaments, International Yoga Day, Anty Ragging Day, Independence Day, National Sports Day, Inter Technology University Sports Association (ITUSA), Republic Day, Rastriya Ekta Diwas (Run for Unity), Inter Year Tournament, Inter Hostel Tournament and prize distribution, fostering a sense of community and promoting the importance of physical well-being. All sports and games activities are directed by a Sports Committee comprising of Prof. I/C (Phy. Edu. & Sports), Faculty In-charges of various games, SAS Officer and Captains of various Games and Sports. The Committee is responsible for laying down the policies and programme for Games and Sports. To keep the engineering students physically fit, the Physical Education and Sports is introduced as compulsory subject for engineering students in the New National Education Policy (NEP-2020), the government has emphasized Sports and Yoga. In line with this, our institute has also introduced Physical Education/Sports/Yoga as an integral part of the curriculum with 01 credit each in Sports and Yoga. In addition to this, the following Games & Sports along with facilities are available for NIT students in the NIT Sports Complex spread over an area of approx. 20 acres. 1. Athletics One standard 400 Mtr. 2. Ball Badminton One Court 3. Basketball One cemented Basketball court in NIT Sports Complex & one in Girls Hostel. 4. Badminton Two Badminton Courts are available (Open) & One Indoor Badminton Hall. 5. Chess Chess facility is also available in the NIT Sports Complex. 6. Cricket One Cricket Ground and 02 Nets for practice. 7. Football One standard Football Ground with light facility. 8. Gymnasium Equipped with modern fitness equipment for strength and cardio training. 9. Handball One Handball Court. 10. Kabaddi To Clay Kabaddi Courts one each for Boys and Girls. 11. Kho-Kho One Kho-Kho Court. 12. Lawn-Tennis Five Grass courts and one cemented court. 13. Swimming Pool An International-Standard Swimming Pool. The pool is equipped with three diving boards at heights of 3, 5, and 7 meters. It operates from March to October and is accessible to students, staff, Alumni, and their Families. Membership requires an application and adherence to scheduled time slots. 14. Table-Tennis Table-Tennis Table facility in the Sports Complex and Hostels. 15. Volleyball Two Standard Courts with light facility and one without lights. 16. Yoga Yoga activities are also carried out in the NIT Sports Complex. 1. Dr. P.C. Tewari Prof.-in-Charge (Physical Education & Sports Section), Mob. No. 98964-34963, Email ID:  pctewari1@nitkkr.ac.in 2. Lt. Shahabuddin S.A.S. Officer, Mob. No.: 94661-28133, Email ID: shahabuddin@nitkkr.ac.in 3. Ms. Pallavi Rai S.A.S. Officer, Mob. NO.: 94678-29434, Email ID: pallaviraisaso@nitkkr.ac.in Address National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Phone +01744-233208 Email registrar@nitkkr.ac.in