URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/transcript-procedure/
Title: Transcript Procedure – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 548
--------------------------------------------------
Transcript Procedure – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra Transcript Procedure Click here to browse the ‘PROCEDURE FOR TRANSCRIPT’ The student(s) who are currently studying or studied any program from the institute (Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra or National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra) may request to obtain a transcript either in-person or authorised any other person. They are requested to follow the following process. Step-1: Download “GENERAL APPLICATION FORM FOR ALL SERVICES” form available on the Institute website under Academic->Student Services->Student Forms. Step-2: Fill application form in your handwriting and attach the following with this application form. Prescribed Fee in the form of Demand Draft in Favor of Director, National   Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, payable at SBI, NIT, Kurukshetra (Branch Code: – 6260) or attach online Proof of Prescribed fee in the main Account of the Institute No. 10116885013 with IFSC No. SBIN0006260. Rs.100/- 1st set (per page) & Subsequent set @ Rs. 50/- (per page) (The set may include photocopies of All Detailed Mark Certificates (DMC) photocopy of Degree/Provisional Degree Certificate (PDC) of both sides without any attestation, Syllabus, World Education Service(WES) Form or such other forms required by the Institute or agencies) (The set may include photocopies of All Detailed Mark Certificates (DMC) photocopy of Degree/Provisional Degree Certificate (PDC) of both sides without any attestation, Syllabus, World Education Service(WES) Form or such other forms required by the Institute or agencies) One self-Attested Photocopy of Photo ID Proof issue by the Organization/Government Agencies like Employee ID card, Student ID card, Voter ID card, Aadhar card etc. One self-Attested Photocopy of Address proof either in your name or your father name or your spouse name or allotted to you by the organization where you are working. Photocopy of Document as a Set for required number of transcripts are as per (1) above. Step-3: Send all the Documents by Hand/Speed Post and Registered Post at the following address. Deputy Registrar (Academic) Room No.: – 210, New Golden Jubilee Administrative Building, National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, Haryana, India: – 136119 Phone No.: –  01744-233342, 227, 228, Email ID: – academic@nitkkr.ac.in Step-4: Normally Transcript is Handed over to the Student within 10-20 working days on receipt of his/her request in the Academic Section. In case if student couldn’t able to collect the transcript in person then he/she can authorize any present student/faculty to collect his/her transcript on behalf of him/her. In this case he/she has to write a letter with authorizing the person for collection of his/her transcript from academic section under his/her own handwriting and signature, scan the letter and send it by email to academic@nitkkr.ac.in. Step-5: In case if student has any query in the process he/she may contact in academic section: For UG/PG & Ph.D. Transcript: – 01744-233342 NOTE: Your suggestion to improve the procedure for getting transcript is always welcomed. You may send your suggestion through email at dr1@nitkkr.ac.in. Students, alumni, visitors, and others are advised to contact Institute authorities for their availability before they plan to come to NIT Kurukshetra for official work. The institute remains open on all working days except Govt Holidays and Weekdays ( Saturdays & Sundays) from 09:00 am to 05:30 pm. Approved timings (for students) on working days, as follows: Morning: 12:00 noon to 01:00 pm and Evening: 04:30 pm to 05:30 pm.