URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/ug-mechanical/
Title: UG – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
Description: Nitkkr Kurukshetra Nitkkr Kurukshetra
Word Count: 320
--------------------------------------------------
UG – National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra UG B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) The B.Tech. programme in Mechanical Engineering is broad based and integrated with emphasis on fundamental concepts to enable the students to become confident engineers capable of solving a wide range of problems encountered in field. The courses have been planned to train the students both in theory and practical work in the following area of Mechanical Engineering. 1.   Machine Design, Stress Analysis, Theory of Machines, Measurements and Automatic Control 2.   Thermodynamics, Thermal Machines, Power Plant Engineering, Renewable Energy 3.   Manufacturing Process, Production and Industrial Engineering The students are given workshop training and industrial training to familiarize them with the working in industry. They are also given problems in their Projects covering design, fabrication, testing and manufacturing aspects, thus giving them an opportunity to develop the capacity to solve practical problems. B.Tech. (Production & Industrial Engineering) The B.Tech. programme in Production & Industrial Engineering emphasizes on providing value-based education by imparting technical skills to the students so as to enable them to steer manufacturing, service and research organizations towards excellence. The course has been planned to train the students both in theory and practical work in the following areas of Production & Industrial Engineering. 1.   Lean Manufacturing, Total Quality Management and Angle Manufacturing 2.   Quality Control and Analysis, Value Engineering, Production planning 3.   Product Design & Development, Operational Management, Optimization The students are given industrial training to provide the requisite exposure to the operations of manufacturing plants. They are also given projects in various areas of IE such as quality management, optimization, product design etc, thus giving them an opportunity to develop the capacity to solve the problems of industry. Scheme and Syllabi of B. Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) is attached in Annexure-I Scheme and Syllabi of B. Tech. (Production & Industrial Engineering) is attached in Annexure-II Address National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra - 136119, Haryana (India) Phone +01744-233208 Email test@nitkkr.ac.in