URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Brochure_MIVA.pdf
Title: Brochure_MIVA.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 799
--------------------------------------------------
September 12-16, 2024 PATRON Prof. B.V. Ramana Reddy Director NIT, Kurukshetra CO-PATRON Dr. Sandeep Kumar Sood Head of the Department, Computer Applications, NIT, Kurukshetra CONVENER Dr. Sandeep Kumar Sood COORDINATOR(S) Dr. Nidhi Gupta Dr. Suresh S ORGANIZING COMMITTEE All faculty and staff members of Department of Computer Applications, NIT Kurukshetra ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Haryana– 136119, India CONTACT Phone: +91-7985275540, +91-8072434635 Web: http://www.nitkkr.ac.in DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA, HARYANA 136119 BACKGROUND: This STC aims where researchers can discuss and meet the newest in machine learning and computer vision applications. The main focus of this workshop is to discuss the current status of these technologies and to let audience be aware with recent advancements and research works in India and across the world. OBJECTIVES: In the current era of digitalized world, computer vision is playing an important role in the engineering, management, and all other applied sciences. Recent advancement in application-based algorithms is compelling the researchers and users for learning and understanding these technologies for modelling and simulating the data from the real-time experiments. The major objective of this short-term course is to provide lectures and training on the applications of computer vision applications on real platform. The participants will learn the fundamental methodology of these along with the hand on sessions on python. At the end of the course, participants will also be trained to develop small project for basic computer vision classification problem. COURSE CONTENTS: Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Vision, Classification, Genetic Algorithms, Classification using LSTM, Transfer Learning, Programming on Real Time Examples. WHO SHOULD ATTEND: Science and Engineering Students, Researchers, Faculties, Industry and Practicing Engineers, Scientists from R&D Labs. HOW TO APPLY: The interested candidates must have to fill the form after depositing the non-refundable registration fee through SBI collect https://forms.gle/hJV2tjSqjyCo5JAr8 1. Goto SBI collect or click on https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect 2. Select Educational Institution 3. Select Haryana 4.Select Director National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra 5. Select MIVA-2024 6. Make the payment and collect the receipt Short Term Course on Machine Intelligence and Vision Algorithms (MIVA-2024) (Online Mode) NOTE: Registration fee is non-refundable*. Participants must have valid ID proof of student/employee from the associated organization. No TA/DA will be paid to the participants. Selection of the participants will be on first- come-first-served basis. VENUE: Online mode REGISTRATON FEES: Registration fee (in INR) is compulsory for all the delegates in following manner: Delegates Online Students 300 Researcher Scholars 500 Academic Faculty 1000 Industry / R&D 2000 LAST DATE OF REGISTRATION: September 11, 2024 NO. OF PARTICIPANTS: A maximum of 30 participants will be considered for this STC programme. Application will be accepted on first-cum-first-serve basis. ABOUT KURUKSHETRA Kurukshetra is known as DHARAMKSHETRA, with historical and religious importance. Here, the battle of Mahabharata was fought, and Lord Krishna preached the philosophy of “KARMA” as enshrined in the holy book “Shrimad Bhagwad Gita”. Kurukshetra is very well connected by Road, Rail and Air. NIT Kurukshetra is situated about 10 km from Pipli bus stand located on NH-44, and 5 km from Kurukshetra Railway Station. Nearby airports are New Delhi and Chandigarh. CERTIFICATE: Certificate will be given to the participants having at least 80% attendance after successful completion of the course. RESOURCE PERSONS: Experts from premier institutes like IITs, NITs, and IIITs will deliver lectures, followed by interactive hands-on sessions by industry person on the subjects. DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS: ABOUT NIT KURUKSHETRA Note: Application submitted through Google Form along with SBI collect receipt generated from online payment, must reach to the coordinator on or before September 11, 2024. Contact Person: Dr. Nidhi Gupta, Mob: +91-7985275540 Dr. Suresh S, Mob: +91-8072434635 Email: nidhi.gupta@nitkkr.ac.in suresh.selvam@nitkkr.ac.in The Department of Computer Applications runs MCA and PhD programmes. Established in 2007, department has experienced faculty and well-equipped laboratories with state-of-the-art infrastructure. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories of all major domains of Computer Science with excellent intranet, servers, hardware and software support. The aim of the department is to attain the status of a leading world-class centre for teaching and research, specifically the needs of industry with emphasis on innovation, technological development, and leadership proficiency. Each year, many students of the department get selected for higher studies in world’s most reputed Universities and Institutes. The department is equally active in research with many quality publications each year in IEEE, Science direct, ACM, Springer, Wiley etc. National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra,was founded in 1963 and is presently celebrating its diamond jubilee. It was conferred upon the NIT status, with Deemed University on June 26, 2002. The Institute offers several courses in various disciplines of B.Tech., M.Tech., MBA, MCA and Ph.D with an annual intake of about 1500 students. Institute provides state of the art facilities for academics, practical and experimental learning and research.