URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Vol-1-issue-1-Sept.2017.pdf
Title: NEWS LETTER' 17 new.cdr
Description: 
Word Count: 4302
--------------------------------------------------
National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra I am happy to learn that the inaugural issue of R & D newsletter of the Institute is being published. This is a good beginning, which I believe, will have long lasting impact and provide impetus to the research & development in the Institute. The Institute has been continuously enhancing R & D activities at commendable pace. A good number of sponsored research projects have been awarded to the faculty by diﬀerent funding agencies including, SERB- DST, DRDO, CSIR, IUAC, NCAER, ISRO, and SAC. We have completely revised the course curriculum of all B.Tech. programmes to make it responsive to requirements of the industry. Laboratories of all the Departments are being equipped with state-of-the-art hardware and software tools. Initiatives have also been taken to develop centres of excellence in the areas of high performance computing, cyber security and energy studies. Emphasis is being laid on multidisciplinary research in cutting edge areas. Ph.D. program is being restructured to undertake problems in conjunction with related industries and R & D organisations. We are making eﬀorts to strengthen the Industry -Institute collaborations for extending our outreach at national and international levels. I am sure this newsletter will prove to be an apt platform to showcase the research outcomes and outreach activities of both the faculty and students. I appreciate the eﬀorts of the Newsletter Team and convey my best wishes! Dr. SaƟsh Kumar From Dean Research and Consultancy Greetings from NIT Kurukshetra. NIT Kurukshetra over the years has witnessed noteworthy growth in terms of scale, strength, and stature. In addition to introduction of innovative practices in teaching and learning processes, an array of initiatives have been launched in the area of research and development activities. These initiatives have yielded encouraging results in terms of award of the sponsored research projects from diﬀerent funding agencies, and eﬀective interface and collaborations with industries and R & D organisations. A ecosystem is being developed to engage UG students in research activities and connecting Ph.D. scholars with related R & D organisations, industries and laboratories. We are pleased to present the inaugural issue of the R & D Newsletter highlighting research activities undertaken and accomplished during the academic session 2016-17. It focuses on sponsored research projects, Ph.D. degrees awarded, industry interface and tie-ups, and conferences organised. I keenly look forward to receiving your feedback and suggestions to continuing to grow and diversify our R &D activities. From the Director Prof. Brahmjit Singh Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 Research Research Research & & & Development Development Development Newsletter Newsletter Newsletter Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 2 NaƟonal InsƟtute of Technology Kurukshetra was established as Regional Engineering College in 1963 to impart technical educaƟon and provide research faciliƟes in diﬀerent disciplines of engineering and technology. With a humble beginning of 120 students in B.Sc. (Engg.) degree course of study, the InsƟtute recognised as InsƟtuƟon of NaƟonal Importance now boasts of running 7 B.Tech., 22 M.Tech., MBA, MCA and Ph.D. programmes in all major areas of engineering, technology, sciences, management and humaniƟes. The academic fabric of the InsƟtute consists of Departments, Schools and Centres. Located in the land of Mahabharata-Kurukshetra, the InsƟtute spreads over 300-acre lush green and environment friendly campus. Ours is a fully residenƟal InsƟtute with excellent on-campus accommodaƟon faciliƟes for students, faculty and staﬀ. There are ten boys and four girls hostels with total capacity of over 5000 student residents. NIT Kurukshetra is commiƩed to fundamental and applied research in fronƟer areas of engineering, technology and science streams. Expanding list of sponsored research projects reﬂects its noteworthy posiƟon in cuƫng edge research. Teaching and learning processes and research and development acƟviƟes are supported by central faciliƟes. The central library with state-of-the-art faciliƟes houses a huge collecƟon of over 1, 90,000 documents. The library subscribes to over 4500 journals and online resources. The centre of compuƟng and networking provides compuƟng and networking infrastructure for informaƟon access to students, faculty and staﬀ through a campus wide local area network with OFC backbone. Focussed aƩempts are made for the growth of the students by providing them with an array of extra- and co-curricular acƟviƟes. State-of-the-art sports and games faciliƟes including swimming pool, and technical and cultural clubs contribute to wholesome health and holisƟc development of the students. During its exemplary journey of over ﬁve decades, NIT Kurukshetra has been successful in making remarkable strides in teaching, learning, research and outreach acƟviƟes. Vision To be a role model in technical educaƟon and research, responsive to global challenges Mission To impart quality technical educaƟon that develops innovaƟve professionals and entrepreneurs and to undertake research that generates cuƫng edge technologies and futurisƟc knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs. ABOUT NIT KURUKSHETRA Intelligent Real Time Situation Awareness and Decision Support System for Indian Defence Sponsor: Defence Research & Development Organisation Dr. Sarika Jain Department of Computer Applications Email: jasarika@nitkkr.ac.in The project aims at developing an intelligent system with ontological framework to support military commanders in taking the best decisions in emergencies by providing them enhanced resource management assistance and situaƟon awareness in real Ɵme. The outcome of this project is two-fold in that it delivers a resource manager and provides recommendaƟons in case of emergency along with the jusƟﬁcaƟons. The ﬁrst deliverable is a comprehensive, modular and scienƟﬁcally accurate semanƟc web portal which provides visualizaƟon (concept navigaƟon like text output, hierarchical tree, network and instance navigaƟon), query (abstract browsing based on user query), and keyword search. This ontology based resource manager for unconvenƟonal emergencies is an aƩempt to provide soluƟon for represenƟng knowledge base semanƟcally and presenƟng it to the end user in a seamless manner. The second deliverable is an earthquake advisory system working in post disaster stage that helps its various users designated as experts in disaster management and local authoriƟes in taking prompt decision in the state of various emergencies hence minimizing loss of life and property. The acƟons recommended by the decision support system are determined based on a hybrid case-based and rule-based reasoning. While tradiƟonal, relaƟonal data warehousing and federaƟon approaches can scale well and are eﬀecƟve for many core data storage and access requirements; such approaches oŌen fail when facing the dynamic changes and the inherent complexity of data integraƟon requirements. This is where semanƟc technology excels, as it builds on a common extensible data model (the Resource DescripƟon Framework, RDF), in which all data are represented in form of explicitly meaningful triples. The main advantage of using ontologies (RDF format) is the formalized semanƟcs. This way the reasoner can facilitate all informaƟon like what, where, when, which mission; and automaƟcally infer new statements without wriƟng speciﬁc code. Metal complexes modified nanoscale vesicles for therapeutic carbon monoxide delivery Sponsor: Council of Scientiﬁc & Industrial Research (CSIR) Dr. Amilan Jose D Department of Chemistry Email: amilanjosenit@nitkkr.ac.in Carbon monoxide (CO) is a promising candidate for several therapeuƟc applicaƟons. Many physiological eﬀects are documented for controlled applicaƟon of CO such as anƟnﬂametry agents, regulaƟon of blood pressure, protecƟng against ischemia, sepƟc shock and also hyperoxia. Since CO is an extremely toxic molecule volumetric dosing in therapeuƟc agents is very challenging. Thus CO- releasing molecules (CORMs) may solve this issue. In this research work we aim to develop biocompaƟble vesicles funcƟonalized with metal carbonyl complexes and to measure the rates of CO release, complemented by IR and UV-vis spectroscopy. The CO releasing properƟes of vesicles compared with free metal carbonyl complexes. SPONSORED RESEARCH PROJECTS Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 3 Investigations on Hexaferrites to search strong magnetoelectric compounds at room temperature. Sponsor: CSIR Dr. Anurag Gaur Department of Physics Email:anuragdph@gmail.com The hexaferrites with helical spin order have been suggested as promising candidates for high temperature mulƟferroics. It was reported that some Y-type hexaferrites, such as (Ba,Sr)2Zn2Fe12O22 and Ba2Mg2Fe12O22, can show magneƟcally induced ferroelectricity and pronounced magnetoelectric (ME) eﬀects due to modiﬁcaƟons of spiral magneƟc structures by applying magneƟc ﬁelds. Although the magneƟc ordering temperatures of these Y-type hexaferrites are above room temperature, their ME eﬀects are observable only below ~ 130 K. Subsequently, ME eﬀects were also observed in Z-type, M-type, and U-type hexaferrites. Especially, the low ﬁeld ME aﬀect in a Z-type hexaferrite, Sr3Co2Fe24O41, happens at room temperature, represenƟng a big step towards pracƟcal applicaƟons. M-type hexaferrites denoted as BaFe12O19 has also aƩracted a lot of aƩenƟon because of their excellent magneƟc properƟes and potenƟal applicaƟon in various ﬁelds including mulƟ stage memory storage devices. The hexaferrites have excellent magneƟc properƟes at room temperature; however, they have weak dielectric properƟes. The dielectric properƟes can be improved by the subsƟtuƟon of suitable doping elements in these hexaferrites. These doping elements will reduce the conducƟvity by which dielectric constant will be improved. Therefore, maintaining a low conducƟvity will be a key property in improving the dielectric properƟes of hexaferrites and it will also results the large magnetoelectric coupling in these compounds at room temperature. A possible MERAM element. The present proposal aims to design a noble mulƟferroic compound in single phase with improved magnetoelectric coupling coeﬃcient of the order of ~100 V/cm-Oe at room temperature, which makes them ready for technological applicaƟons. To design a new arƟﬁcial mulƟferroic, we will adopt two disƟnct approaches. The ﬁrst one deals with modifying the synthesis condiƟons for known hexaferrites such as M-type [(Ba,Sr)Fe12O19], Y-type [(Ba,Sr)2Me2Fe12O22], Z-type [(Ba,Sr)3Me2Fe24O41] (Me= transiƟon metal ion) and second is related to doping of suitable elements(e.g., Cu, Mn, Dy etc.) to improve the ferroelectricity of these hexaferrites.The third is concerning to design the composites of hexaferrites with good ferroelectric substances, which results the coupling interacƟon between ferroelectric and magneƟc substance and produce a large ME response at room temperature. AŌer opƟmizing the best ME properƟes in bulk samples, we will grow the mulƟlayer thin ﬁlms of these compounds on various substrates for mulƟ stage memory storage devices as planed in the Figure. Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 4 Sponsor: Women Scientists Scheme, DST Ms. Anita Bhatia Dr. M. Senthilkumar Department of Chemistry Email: msenthil@nitkkr.ac.in The main objecƟve of this proposal is to synthesize some Co(I) complexes soluble in both organic and aqueous medium and use them as catalysts for the [2+2+2] cyclotrimerizaƟon reacƟons in aqueous and biphasic medium. The proposal aims to: a) IdenƟfy versaƟle Co(l) catalysts soluble in both organic and aqueous media b) Allow catalysis under mild reacƟon condiƟons Classification and feature selection of AVIRIS-NG airborne hyperspectral data for crop cover mapping/urban mapping Sponsor: Space Application Centre (ISRO), Ahmedabad Dr. Mahesh Pal (PI) Dr. Mantosh Biswas (Co-PI) Department of Civil Engineering | Email: mahesh.pal@nitkkr.ac.in ClassiﬁcaƟon of hyperspectral remote sensing images is one of the most commonly applied techniques used in remote sensing data processing. ClassiﬁcaƟon eﬀects a transformaƟon from a physical measurement into a cartographic or themaƟc descripƟon of the earth's surface, for examples into terms such as forest, crops, urban area, water bodies, etc. Several approaches of classiﬁcaƟon of hyper spectral remote sensing imagery have been proposed with many successful applicaƟons. With the availability of high resoluƟon remote sensing hyperspectral imagery over India, several new classiﬁcaƟon approaches requiring smaller training sample size can be used as an alternaƟve to staƟsƟcal and neural network based approaches. The present research proposal aims to invesƟgate the performance of new classiﬁcaƟon algorithms in combinaƟon with feature selecƟon for crop type discriminaƟon and urban mapping using high resoluƟon hyperspectral data. During the study, appropriate classiﬁcaƟon algorithms such as relevance vector machines (RVM), support vector machines (SVM) and sparse extreme learning machines (SELM) shall be used and their performance will be judged for land cover/urban classiﬁcaƟon. Various feature selecƟon algorithms (ﬁlter, wrapper and embedded) will be compared to select appropriate combinaƟon of wavebands to be used by diﬀerent classiﬁerswith the used dataset. Based upon these invesƟgaƟons, a realisƟc model (feature selecƟon plus classiﬁer) will be developed for crop type discriminaƟon and urban mapping from high resoluƟon hyperspectral data over India. Such a model shall prove to be of immense potenƟal to planners and administrators for diﬀerent planning acƟviƟes requiring land use/land cover informaƟon. Synthesis of water soluble Cobalt complexes and their catalytic activities in aqueous and biphasic medium Cobalt catalysedcycloaddiƟon reacƟons in aqueous and biphasic medium Department of Computer Engineering | Email: mantoshbiswas@nitkkr.ac.in Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 5 Sponsor: UGC-DAE-CSR Dr. Avijit Kumar Paul Department of Chemistry Email: avijit.chem@gmail.com Perovskite related compounds having the general formula ABO3, with diverse combinaƟons of A (alkaline earth or rare earth metals) and B ( transiƟon metal or a smaller lanthanide) caƟons have become very exciƟng and conƟnue to aƩract long term research aƩenƟon due to their exciƟng structural and electronic properƟes. Unpaired d-electrons of transiƟon metals introduce useful properƟes such as ferromagneƟsm, mulƟferroicity, colossal magnetoresistance, and magnetoimpedance. SubstanƟal iƟnerant character of electrons and the presence of a magneƟc moment of 4d and 5d elements more suitable for the B-subsƟtuƟon in the perovskites. At lower temperatures, long range ordering is observed when B site is subsƟtuted with mixture of transiƟon elements. The observaƟon of two-dimensional magneƟc correlaƟons and parƟal long- range magneƟc ordering of geometrically frustrated Sr2YRuO6 have moƟvated us to further invesƟgate the new ruthenium based compounds. Finding of new geometrically frustrated structures with peculiar magneƟc behavior are quite fascinaƟng materials for useful properƟes. Hence, our idea is to ﬁnd out the detail structural and magneƟc properƟes of new frustrated materials and ﬁnding their applicability in spintronic devices. Defending Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Attacks using Dynamic Resource Ownership and Economic Incentive Based Solution Sponsor: SERB-DST Dr. B. B. Gupta Department of Computer Engineering Email: bbgupta@nitkkr.ac.in In past two decades, Internet has revoluƟonized almost every facet of our lives. Government, commercial, and educaƟonal organizaƟons depend on Internet to such an extent that day-to-day operaƟons are signiﬁcantly hindered when the network is "down". Almost all the important services such as banking, transportaƟon, stock trade, medicine, educaƟon, etc are extended to Internet now. Unfortunately, at the same Ɵme, the prosperity of the Internet also aƩracts abusers and malicious aƩackers. Internet based aƩacks can be launched anywhere in the world, and unfortunately no Internet based service is immune to these aƩacks. These aƩacks lead to heavy ﬁnancial losses, delays, and customer dissaƟsfacƟon. Trustworthiness and security of the Internet not only beneﬁts on-line businesses, but is also an issue for naƟonal safety. Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) aƩack is currently amongst the most problemaƟc Internet security threats as it compromises most criƟcal security requirement (i.e. availability). These aƩacks are criƟcal as they aim at denying or degrading services for a legiƟmate user. The impact of DoS aƩacks can vary from minor inconvenience to users of a website, to serious ﬁnancial losses for companies that rely on their on-line availability to do business. Researchers have come up with more and more speciﬁc soluƟons to the DDoS problem. However, exisƟng DDoS aƩack tools keep being improved and new aƩack techniques are developed. Therefore, cycle of aƩacking and defending is like a game. When someone ﬁnds a way to aƩack a system, someone else tries to defend against this aƩack. The aƩacker then tries harder to defeat the protecƟons. It becomes a cycle that never seems to end. This moƟvates us to invesƟgate eﬃcient soluƟons to current and future DDoS aƩacks rather than to react with speciﬁc countermeasures. Hence, the objecƟve of this project work is to provide dynamic resources ownership and economic incenƟve based soluƟon to handle variety of DDoS aƩacks quickly and accurately to ensure reasonable performance of the network or system under aƩack. Detailed investigations on crystal and magnetic structures of frustrated double perovskites and their lanthanum composites Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 6 CONFERENCES ORGANIZED th 5 National Conference on Nanoscience and Instrumentation Technology A two-day NaƟonal Conference on "Nanoscience and InstrumentaƟon Technology" during March 05-06, 2017 was organized by the Department of Physics. Dr. D.K. Aswal, Director, NaƟonal Physical Laboratory, New Delhi, was the Chief Guest of the inaugural funcƟon of the conference. Dr. Aswal delivered a keynote lecture on the topic "PerspecƟve on Science, Technology, InnovaƟon and Entrepreneurship Policy." He highlighted the importance of nanomaterials in the context of technology and moƟvated the delegates to focus their research on implementaƟon of the materials for the new applicaƟons. Experts from industry and academia delivered lectures on the topics related to the nanoscience and instrumentaƟon technology. The conference included the broad areas of nano science and instrumentaƟon like synthesis of nanomaterials, nano-electronics, nano-magneƟcs, sensor and instrumentaƟon, simulaƟon and modeling and many more. The conference was conducted in six technical sessions including oral and poster presentaƟons of more than 130 research papers. The delegates from 45 insƟtutes including IITs, NITs, many other presƟgious universiƟes parƟcipated in the conference. The conference was organized by Dr. J.K. Quamara, Dr. Ashavani Kumar and Dr. R.P. Chauhan as coordinators. National Conference on Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering A two-day NaƟonal Conference on "Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering" (NCRAME 2017) was inaugurated by Shri MSR Prasad, Director DRDL. Shri MSR Prasad, in his inaugural address talked about advanced technologies that are being adopted by DRDO to indigenously develop advanced weapons. Shri Rajiv Sachdeva, Director, Monarch Cylinder Liners Pvt. Ltd. was the Guest of Honor and keynote speaker of the funcƟon. He delivered a talk on "Past, present and future of the Indian automoƟve industry". Padma Shri Dr. SaƟsh Kumar, Director NIT Kurukshetra, in his presidenƟal address, idenƟﬁed four thrust areas in which the insƟtute can collaborate with industry. These thrust areas were idenƟﬁed as tribology, renewable energy, biomechanics and automoƟves. Prof. Naveen Kumar, Mechanical Engineering Department, DTU, Delhi delivered a plenary talk on "Renewable Diesel: OpportuniƟes and Challenges for India. He depicted bright future for renewable diesel, use of which will also reduce harmful emissions and preserve our environment. One hundred twenty-six papers were presented in fourteen technical sessions on day one of the conference. Sixty-eight papers were presented on the second day of the conference i.e. on June 03, 2017. Two plenary talks were also delivered on the second day of the conference. The conference was organized by Dr. Gian Bhushan, Dr. Vinod MiƩal as coordinators. Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 7 INDUSTRY COLLABORATION NIT Kurukshetra has signed a special memorandum of understanding with Delta Power SoluƟons India. This industry collaboraƟon has major focus on the engagement of students in design innovaƟon spanning smart manufacturing and industry automaƟon. The collaboraƟon aims to connect the research eﬀorts of the students with the industry which in turn shall enable them to translate research outcomes into real products. The MoU provides opportunity to our students to undergo training and get hands-on experience at the Delta Power SoluƟons and their R & D units. The students are oﬀered 100% ﬁnancial support and industry experƟse by the company to translate their ideas into real life working models and products. This industry-insƟtute collaboraƟon provides a unique plaƞorm to NIT Kurukshetra for strengthening the delivery component of our R & D ecosystem. STUDENT'S CORNER A three-member students team from NIT Kurukshetra, parƟcipated in “India InnovaƟon Challenge and Design Contest” organized by Texas Instruments, anchored by IIM Bangalore and funded by Department of Science and Technology (DST), and supported by "My Gov." and "Make in India" programmes. The team included Mukesh Prasad Agrawal from Electrical Engineering, Nishant Bundela and Naveen Rathi from Mechanical Engineering. This team developed “Smart SƟck” for the blinds with the objecƟve of helping them travel independently. This device houses various sensors and a microcontroller, which noƟﬁes the user about the obstacles in the path by vibraƟon. 11,500 teams from 628 Engineering colleges of India took part in this contest. Round 1 was abstract submissions for an innovaƟve business proposal. AŌer round 1, 428 teams were shortlisted for quarterﬁnal round. On the basis of presentaƟon and video of technical demonstraƟon of the prototypes developed, 54 teams were selected for semiﬁnal round. In semiﬁnal round, shortlisted teams presented their idea in front of a panel of judges from IIM Bangalore. 30 teams qualiﬁed for the ﬁnal round and were granted a project development fund of Rs. 5 Lakh. Each team was alloƩed mentors from IIM Bangalore and Texas Instruments for business and technical guidance respecƟvely. In the ﬁnal round, th NIT Kurukshetra team bagged 16 posiƟon in this contest. Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 8 Ph.D. DEGREES AWARDED Advanced Techniques for Feature ExtracƟon from Satellite Images Robustness Analysis & Control Design of Flexible AC Transmission (FACTS) Based Power Systems Design of Wind Turbine Emulator and CondiƟon Monitoring Performance PredicƟon of Permanent-Split Capacitor-Run Single-Phase InducƟon Motor Modeling and Analysis of SoŌ Switching DC/DC Converters Mr. Vikas MiƩal Mr. Vijay Kumar Tayal Ms. Himani Mr. Vijay Kumar Ms. Sudha Bansal Dr. L. M. Saini Professor, Electrical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Dharmendra Singh Professor, Electronics & Comm. Engg. IIT Roorkee Dr. J. S. Lather Professor, Electrical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr.(Mrs.) Ratna Dahiya Professor, Electrical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. L. M. Saini Professor, Electrical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. J. S. Saini Professor, Electrical Engineering DCRUST Murthal (Sonipat) Dr. L. M. Saini Professor, Electrical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Dixit Garg Professor, Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr Ashish Agarwal Associate Professor, Mechanical Engg. IGNOU, Delhi Dr. Dixit Garg Professor, Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Prof. Raj Kumar Director Galaxy Global Group of InsƟtuƟons, Ambala Dr. Dinesh Khanduja Professor, Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. S K Sharma Professor (Retd.), Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Title of the Thesis Supervisor/Co- Supervisor Name of Scholar ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT Quality Management in Supply Chain-Study of Select Issues Performance Measurement of TQM Elements in Indian Auto Sector Some Six Sigma ImperaƟves for Capacity Waste Management in Indian Auto Sector: A Case Study Mr. Ashwani Kumar Sharma Mr. Vineet Gupta Mr. Rajeev Rathi Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 9 Local Mutual Exclusion and its Variants in Mobile Adhoc Networks Lean and Green manufacturing: Concept, Trends and PracƟces in Foundry Industry for ProducƟvity Improvement A Procedural Approach for Design and SelecƟon of OpƟmized Facility Layout for Manufacturing Industries InvesƟgaƟon and Modeling of Machining CharacterisƟcs in Rotary Ultrasonic Machining of Ceramics Structural Analysis and OpƟmizaƟon of Parameters for FaƟgue Life Enhancement of a Symmetrical MulƟ Leaf Spring Experimental InvesƟgaƟon and Modeling of Machining CharacterisƟcs in Ultrasonic Machining of WC-Co Composite Material Dr. JaƟnder Kumar AssƩ. Professor, Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. B.S. Pabla Professor, Mechanical Engineering NITTTR, Chandigarh Dr. Gian Bhushan Professor, Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. M. L. Aggarwal Professor, Mechanical Engineering YMCA University of Science & Technology Faridabad Dr. Sandeep Singhal Associate Professor, Mechanical Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Sandeep Singhal Associate Professor, Mechanical Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Dinesh Khanduja Professor, Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. S. K. Sharma Professor (Retd.), Mechanical Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. A. K. Singh Professor, Computer Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr Abhishek Swaroop Professor, Computer Engineering GalgoƟa University, G Noida Dr. S. K. Jain Professor, Computer Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. J. K. Chhabra Professor, Computer Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. R. K. Sharma Professor, Electronics & Comm. Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr A. K. Gutpa Professor (Retd.), ECE, NIT Kurukshetra COMPUTER ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT Fuzzy Logic Driven Goal Oriented Requirements ElicitaƟon Process Measurement of Quality of Object Oriented SoŌware Using Mining of SoŌware Repositories AcousƟc Analysis of Pathological Voice Signals and Their ClassiﬁcaƟon Mr. Ravinder Kataria Mr. Vinkel Kumar Arora Mr. Parveen Sharma Mr. Suresh Prasad Mr. Ravi Pratap Singh Mr. Ashish Khanna Mohd. Sadiq Mr. Anshu Parashar Ms. Saloni Title of the Thesis Supervisor/Co- Supervisor Name of Scholar Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 10 Dr. R. K. Sharma Professor, Electronics & Comm. Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Rajoo Pandey Professor, Elect. & Comm. Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. A. K. Gupta Professor (Retd.), Elect. & Comm. Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Singh Professor, Computer ApplicaƟons NIT Kurukshetra Dr. O.P. Sahu Professor, Electronics & Comm. Engg. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Baldev SeƟa Professor, Civil Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. K. K. Singh Professor, Civil Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. N. K. Tiwari Professor, Civil Engineering NIT Kurukshetra Dr. D. P. Singh Professor, Chemistry NIT Kurukshetra Dr. MinaƟ Baral, Professor, Chemistry NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Rajender Kumar Professor, HumaniƟes & Social Sciences NIT Kurukshetra Dr. P.J. Philip Professor (Retd.), HumaniƟes & Soc. Sc. NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Kiran Mor Professor, HumaniƟes & Social Sciences NIT Kurukshetra CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT Run-Ɵme Power Management in ArithmeƟc Circuits using Ultra Fine-grained Power-gaƟng Improvement in LifeƟme of Clustered Wireless Sensor Networks Using Load Balancing Approach Design of Low Voltage High Performance Current Mirrors using Quasi-FloaƟng Gate MOSFET Designing Near Perfect ReconstrucƟon Two- Channel QMF Banks CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT Scour Around Abutments: PredicƟon, Mechanism and ProtecƟon Study of Sediment Extractor Synthesis and CharacterizaƟon of some Macrocyclic TransiƟon Metal Complexes of Biological Interest Development of some BiomimeƟc Chelators and their ComplexaƟon Studies with Biologically AcƟve Metal Ions HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES DEPARTMENT Purchase of Counterfeit Products: A Study of Consumer Behaviour Protean and Boundaryless Career OrientaƟon: A Study of It Professionals in NCR Mr. Ashish Jasuja Ms. Vrinda Krishan Lal Gupta Mr. Nikhil Raj Mr. Surendra Kumar Agrawal Mr. Upain Kumar BhaƟa Mr. Bhupendra Kishore Singh Ms. Parveen Mr. Amit Gupta Mr. Saurabh Verma Ms. Anshu Lochab Title of the Thesis Supervisor/Co- Supervisor Name of Scholar Vol. 1 | Issue 1 | September 2017 11 www. nitkkr.ac.in FACULTY COORDINATORS Research & Consultancy Dr. N.K. Singh Associate Professor, Mechanical Engg. Tel. 01744-233461 Email : nksinghfme@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Saurabh Chanana Associate Professor, Electrical Engg. Tel. 01744-233401 Email: saurabh@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Arvind Kumar Assistant Professor Electronics & Comm. Engg. Tel. 01744-233429 Email : arvind_sharma@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Anurag Gaur Assistant Professor, Physics Tel. 01744-233496 Email : anuragdph@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Mantosh Biswas Assistant Professor, Computer Engg. Tel. 01744-233489 Email : mantoshbiswas@nitkkr.ac.in Address for Correspondence DEAN, RESEARCH & CONSULTANCY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA-136119 (Haryana) Tel: +91-01744-233221 | Email: brahmjit@nitkkr.ac.in