URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/3.-STC_ADL_Py25-Brochure_New.docx.pdf
Title: 3. STC_ADL_Py'25 Brochure_New.docx
Description: 
Word Count: 665
--------------------------------------------------
Self-Sponsored One Week Short Term Course On Applied Deep Learning using Python (ADL-Py'25) From 01.09.2025 – 06.09.2025 Hybrid Mode Organized By Department of Computer Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India ABOUT NIT KURUKSHETRA NIT Kurukshetra, formerly known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra was founded in 1963. It was conferred upon the NIT status, with Deemed University on June 26, 2002. The Institute offers several courses, in various disciplines of B.Tech, M.Tech, MBA, MCA, and Ph.D with an annual intake of about 1500 students. The institute also provides excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Engineering, Science, and Technology. The institute has well-qualified and dedicated faculty along with supporting staff, laboratories, and other infrastructure. The infrastructure is geared to enable the institute to produce technical personnel of high quality. ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT The Department of Computer Engineering started in 1987 with the aim to equip students with the necessary skills to navigate the dynamic landscape of IT requirements preparing for the future. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories of all major domains of Computer Engineering and Information Technology. The department is equally active in research with many quality publications each year in IEEE, ScienceDirect, ACM, Springer, Wiley, etc. For the overall development, the department also covers the other aspects of life like Health management, moral and ethical development of the students. OBJECTIVES OF THE STC The STC "Applied Deep Learning using Python" aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of deep learning fundamentals and advanced techniques It enhances the knowledge and hands-on experience needed to design, implement, and apply deep learning (DL) models using industry-standard tools like TensorFlow and PyTorch. Through real-world case studies, participants will gain the ability to apply DL concepts effectively, bridging the gap between theoretical understanding and practical, across various real-world domains such as computer vision, natural language processing, and generative modeling. TENTATIVE CONTENTS ●​ Deep Learning Fundamentals: Introduction to ANN, Activation Functions, gradient descent, and Regularization Lab Session: Use of Sckit-learn for ANN ●​ Understanding CNN Architectures: Introduction to CNN layers, Feature Detection and mapping, Max pooling and Flattening in CNN. Lab Session: Image processing (classification and segmentation) using CNN. ●​ Introduction to RNN: Basics of RNN, Training, BPTT, LSTM, BiLSTM, and GRU. Lab Session: Use of RNN for Language translation. ●​ Encoder Decoder Models: Introduction to Encoder-Decoder Models, Attention Mechanism in Encoder-Decoder. ●​ Lab Session: Use of encoder decoder model for Image Captioning, Video Classification. ●​ Vision Transformer: Introduction to Vision Transformer, Hands-on session on Vision Transformer ABOUT KURUKSHETRA Kurukshetra is popularly known for its historical and religious importance. Here, the battle of Mahabharata was fought, and Lord Shree Krishna delivered the divine. Kurukshetra is very well connected by Rail, Delhi- Ambala section, by Road (NH1) and by Air (Delhi 160 km and Chandigarh 80 km). The NIT Kurukshetra campus is situated about 10 km from Pipli Bus stand located on NH1 and about 4 km from Kurukshetra railway station. TARGET AUDIENCE The STC is valuable to UG/PG students, research scholars, faculty, and Industry professionals. REG Registration Fee Intruction of the Payment: Kindly make payment through SBI Collect using link: https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect/icoll ecthome.htm Select Educational Institutions --> Select State Haryana --> Select DIRECTOR NIT KURUKSHETRA -> Select ADL-Py 25 IMPORTANT DATES ●​ Last date for registration is 31st August, 2025. ●​ Confirmation by email to participants by 1st September, 2025. HOW TO APPLY To apply for the STC, interested candidates should fill out the registration form: https://forms.gle/GNzscLXgwsdV9KfeA You can also register by scanning the QR code. ORGANIZING COMMITTEE Chief Patron Prof (Dr) B.V. Ramana Reddy​ Director, NIT Kurukshetra Patron Prof (Dr) A.K. Singh Professor and Head, Department of CoE Convener Prof (Dr) Mayank Dave Professor Department of CoE Email: mdave@nitkkr.ac.in Course Coordinator(s) Dr Abhilasha Sharma Assistant Professor Department of CoE Email: abhilasha@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-7347550992 Dr Vishwas Rathi Assistant Professor Department of CoE Email: vishwas@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-7895284774 S. No. Participant Category Fee (Rs.) 1 UG/PG Student, Research Scholar 500 2 Faculty 1000 3 Industry Professional 2000