URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Revised-Brochure-for-Admission-in-Diploma-Certificate-course-in-Bhagavad-Gita.pdf
Title: Microsoft Word - CHPD Brochure
Description: 
Word Count: 1011
--------------------------------------------------
About Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, steeped in history and mythology, is a place of great spiritual significance where Lord Krishna delivered the divine message of Shrimad Bhagavad Gita. This place from where knowledge spread far and wide was chosen as his capital by King Harshwardhana. It is one of the premier Centre of pilgrimage, attracting devotees in a steady stream all-round the year. Kurukshetra is a railway junction on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala section of the Northern Railway. It is about 160 kms from Delhi. The Institute is about 10 kms from Pipli, a well-known road junction on the Sher Shah Suri Marg (NH-1), and about 5 kms from Kurukshetra Railway Station. About the Institute National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, one of the 31 NITs in the country, is a premier Center of learning and research in various disciplines of Engineering and Management. It trains and develops high caliber professionals to serve not only the country but also the World at large. Estab enter Gove eleva Univ made facili stren Instit Orga Abo The Perso recen kind The of N Educ Holis inclu Quot Quot The Prog Conf Centre of Exc Nat Brochure for Þfo|k nnkfr fou;a] fou;kn~ fo|k fou; nsrh gS] fou; ls ik=rk vkrh gS blished in 1963 as an REC- a joint rprise of the Government of India and the ernment of Haryana -the college was ated to a National Institute with Deemed versity status in June 2002. The Institute has e rapid strides in expanding and upgrading ities, enhancing the quality of education and ngthening the linkage with industry. The tute Alumni are well placed in reputed anizations in India and abroad. out the Centre Centre of Excellence for Holistic onality Development (CHPD) has been ntly setup in the Institute which is first of its in the Country. Centre will work to achieve the Objectives NEP 2020 by providing Value Based cation which will nurture all aspects of stic Personality Development which ude Physical Quotient (PQ), Intelligence tient (IQ), Emotional Quotient (EQ), Social tient (SQ) and Spiritual Quotient (SQ). Centre will organize Faculty Development grams/ Workshops/ STCs/ Symposia/ ferences in the fields of Personality Development Skills for H Human Valu Meditation, Certificate C Working Pr Universal Hum The Centre a activities in Science, Me Indian Knowl About Dipl This Course philosophy o modern organ The Program emotionally leaders. This strengthen the external chall Drawing fro Bhagavad Gi manage emot and align th purpose. cellence for Holistic Personality Developme tional Institute of Technology Kurukshetra r Diploma/Certificate Course in Bhagavad Working Professionals) w.e.f. 2025-26 n~ ;kfr ik=rke~A ik=Rokr~ /kuekIuksfr] /kukr~ /keaZ rr% lq[ke~ gS] ik=rk ls /ku vkrk gS] /ku ls /keZ gksrk gS] vkSj /keZ ls lq t, Value Based Education, Life Holistic Development, Nurturing ues in Youth, Mindfulness & etc. The Centre plans to start Courses in Bhagavad Gita for rofessionals, Cognitive Science, man Values etc. also plans to strengthen Research various fields such as Cognitive ental Health & Well-being and ledge System. oma/Certificate Course explores the timeless leadership of the Bhagavad Gita tailored for nizations. m focuses on building ethical, intelligent and purpose-driven Course will also help professionals eir inner capacity to thrive amidst lenges. m the timeless insights of the ita, participants will learn how to tions, reduce stress, enhance focus heir daily actions with long-term ent (CHPD) a d Gita (For e~AA lq[k çkIr gksrk gSAß Eligibility Candidates with Graduation in any discipline with minimum 2nd Division are eligible to apply. Mode of Admission To apply for admission to Diploma/Certificate Course in Bhagavad Gita (For Working Professionals) at NIT Kurukshetra, interested candidates are required to fill out the application/Google Form by scanning the QR code given below: https://forms.gle/6uj9i3whUU1KfxkK7 Fees The fees for the course per semester are as under:  Rs. 4,000/- (Persons outside NIT Kurukshetra)  Rs. 2,000/- (Persons from NIT Kurukshetra) Important Dates  Online Application Start: August 16, 2025  Last Date of Application: September 05, 2025 Seat Matrix  Total No. of Seats: 50 Website Link https://nitkkr.ac.in/ Mode of Teaching/Learning The classes will be held in Hybrid Mode. Exit Option Any student wishing to Exit after One Semester will be awarded Certificate only. Sche The c Seme 1. 2. Seme 1. 2. Visi To n by t focus ment Mis To im educ engin engin unde know & so the curre to va eme of the Course course is spread over two semesters. ester-I: Fundamental Concepts of Bhagavad Gita (CHPD101) Credit: 3 Self-Management and Bhagavad Gita (CHPD102) Credit: 3 ester-II: Bhagavad Gita and Meditation (CHPD201) Credit: 3 Leadership Management with Bhagavad Gita (CHPD202) Credit: 3 ion nurture Holistic Personalities of the students taking a holistic approach to education sing on their social, emotional, physical, tal and intellectual growth. sion mpart holistic, multidisciplinary and quality ation that inculcates human values among neers, develops innovative & competent neers, socially responsive citizens and to ertake research that generates prime wledge resources for the growth of industry ociety and futuristic knowledge, focusing on socio-economic needs, to transform the ent education system from outcome based alue based. Objectives  To move to Value  To contr Developm  To Provi Education and integ  To iden technique and pract to imbib their imp professio Prof. B Dr. V Dr. M Dr. Yashash Dr. (Ms Dr. (Ms.) P Dr. Sure For any f Centre of Ex National Inst 99966 ÞJeks uojr ps’Vk pA ifjJe vkSj fujarj iz;klAß of the Centre e from Outcome Based Education Based Education. ribute to the Holistic Personality ment of the Students. ide Multidisciplinary and Holistic n across all streams to ensure unity grity of the knowledge. ntify, develop and disseminate es by which engineering students ticing engineers can be motivated be human values and appreciate pact on technology development, onal ethics and human welfare. Patron .V. Ramana Reddy, Director NIT Kurukshetra Head of Centre Vikas Choudhary, Professor Faculty Mohit Dua, Asst. Professor hchandra Dwivedi, Asst. Professor s.) Shabnam, Asst. Professor Priyanka Sihag, Asst. Professor ender Ontela, Asst. Professor further information, please contact xcellence for Holistic Personality Development itute of Technology Kurukshetra – 136119. 631781, chpd@nitkkr.ac.in