URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Advt.No_.27.2025.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.27.2025.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 714
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.27/2025 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the research project funded by ANRF Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for one post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for a ANRF sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post of recruitment are given below: Position Junior Research Fellow (JRF) No. of Position(s) 01 Project Title "SmileScope: Enhancing Early Autism Diagnosis Through Digital Behavioral Phenotyping " Principal Investigator Dr. Pratishtha Verma; Department of Computer engineering, NIT Kurukshetra; Email: pratishthaverma@nitkkr.ac.in Tenure of Project 3 Years Essential Qualification B.Tech. and M.Tech. or equivalent degree in Computer Science and Engineering/ Computer Engineering/ Information Technology or equivalent with First class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks. Desirable Qualification • Experience with deep learning frameworks such as PyTorch or TensorFlow in the domain of computer vision. Prior experience in Python programming is highly desirable. • Candidate with valid GATE and NET score is desirable. • Candidate with B.Tech. & M.Tech. in Computer Engineering/CSE is desirable. Age & Relaxation 1) 28 years (As per the norms of the Govt. of India/DST-ANRF for JRF recruitment.) 2) Upper age is relaxable up to 5 years for SC/ST/Women and Physically handicapped candidates. Upper age is relaxable up to 3 years for OBC NCL candidates. Fellowship a) Candidate who are selected through National Eligibility Test (CSIR UGC NET or GATE) [₹ 37000 (in 1st & 2nd Year) and ₹ 42000 (in 3rd Year)] per month + HRA. B) Candidate who did not fall under a) get fellowship as per ANRF-DST norm. Other Benefits Candidate selected for the JRF may register for a PHD if eligibility conditions as set by the institute are met by him/her. Application Procedure Last Date & Time Interested candidates should upload their application in the prescribed scanned format, including a photograph and educational qualifications, on or before 9th Nov, 2025 via the online Google Form https://forms.gle/wC6xgC6o69Cq7Rgy8 In case the any difficulty in submission email to pratishthaverma@nitkkr.ac.in Submission mode https://forms.gle/wC6xgC6o69Cq7Rgy8 Page 1 of 2 Page 2 of 2 Note Shortlisted candidates will be informed about the date of the interview During interview the candidate will be evaluated based on academic excellence, viva, and presentation. Mere possession of minimum qualification does not guarantee an invitation to the interview. Candidates will be shortlisted based on their merit and as per the requirement of the project. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on a temporary basis and will be governed by the administrative conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidate should have good bench work capability, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computers. 2. Interested candidates should upload their application in the prescribed scanned format, including a photograph and educational qualifications, on or before 9th Nov, 2025 via the online Google Form https://forms.gle/wC6xgC6o69Cq7Rgy8 In case the any difficulty in submission email to pratishthaverma@nitkkr.ac.in 3. The project duration is 3 years which is co-terminus with the project. 4. Candidates should have good data analysis, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computer. 5. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 6. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. 7. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 8. Appointment will be contractual in nature. 9. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communication in this regard will be entertained. 10. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidates must provide valid e-mail IDs in their application. 11. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 12. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 13. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 14. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD program at NIT Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet eligibility requirements as per the rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c