URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Advt-No.98.2024.pdf
Title: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Description: 
Word Count: 419
--------------------------------------------------
jk"Vªh; izkS|ksfxdh laLFkku] dq:{ks= NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt. No.98/2024 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for the recruitment of up to two (02) Junior Research Fellows (JRFs) on a purely contract basis to work in a Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India sponsored research project titled “Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-Ill" under the Principal Investigator Prof. Mayank Dave, Professor, Computer Engineering Department, NIT Kurukshetra. For further details, please visit the Institute website: www.nitkkr.ac.in. The last date for submission of the application form is 31.01.2025. Sd/- Registrar I/c jk"Vªh; izkS|ksfxdh laLFkku] dq:{ks= NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt. No.98/2024 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for the recruitment of up to two (02) Junior Research Fellows (JRFs) on a purely contract basis to work in a Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India sponsored research project titled “Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-Ill" at the Department of Computer Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra. The details of the project and the post of recruitment are given below: • Name of the Post : Junior Research Fellow (JRF) • No. of Posts : 02 • Essential Qualifications : B.Tech./B.E. and M.Tech./M.E. in Computer Science and Engineering/Computer Engineering/Information Technology or equivalent with First class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks. • Desirable Qualifications : Research experience in Information Security / Cyber Security, valid GATE/NET score. • Emoluments : INR 35,000 per month (consolidated) + Research grant of INR 20,000 per annum • Duration : The position is co-terminus with the duration of the project (Project duration is 5 years). The Position is initially for 1 year and extendable until the tenure of the project. The position is purely on temporary basis which may be renewable for another year/s based upon the performance. Eligible and Interested candidates should send their application along with the following: (i) Completely filled in application form in the attached format. (ii) Detailed CV with particulars of prior research experience, publications, if any. (iii) Self-Attested Copy of all degree certificates A single .pdf file with Email subject line “Application for JRF – Your Full Name” be addressed to mdave@nitkkr.ac.in on or before 31 January, 2025. Applications sent to any other email address will not be considered. Sd/- Registrar I/c