URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/STC-Brochure_SP3PD-2024@NIT-Kurukshetra.pdf
Title: STC-Brochure_SP3PD-2024@NIT-Kurukshetra.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 985
--------------------------------------------------
One Week HYBRID-Mode Short Term Course (STC) on Skill Development in Paper Writing, Pedagogy, and Patent Drafting (SD3PD-2024) 9th Dec – 13th Dec 2024 (Five-Days) Organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119 (Institution of National Importance) www.nitkkr.ac.in Patron Prof. B V Ramana Reddy Hon’ble Director, NIT Kurukshetra Chairman Prof. Hari Singh HOD, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Conveners Dr. Dinesh Khanduja Professor, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Sandeep Singhal Associate Professor, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Coordinators Dr. Dinesh W Rathod Assistant Professor, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Mobile: +91-9834749087 Email: dinesh.rathod@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Ravi Pratap Singh Assistant Professor, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Mobile: +91-8318084834 Email: singhrp@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Rajeev Rathi Assistant Professor, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Mobile: +91-9996886672 Email: rajeevrathi@nitkkr.ac.in Organizing Committee All the Faculty and Staff Members of Mechanical Engineering Department, NIT Kurukshetra INSTITUTE: NIT Kurukshetra VISION “To be a role-model in technical education and research, responsive to global challenges”. MISSION “To impart quality technical education that develops innovative professionals and entrepreneurs”. “To undertake research that generates cutting-edge technologies and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio- economic needs”. ABOUT National Institute of Technology (formerly known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra in 1963) was conferred upon the status of Institution of National Importance (Deemed University) on June 26, 2002. The Institute has B.Tech., M.Tech, MBA and MCA courses in various disciplines with annual intake of about 1500 students. Institute also offers excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Science and Technology leading to Ph.D. degree. The institute has well- qualified and dedicated faculty along with splendid supporting staff, laboratories, and other infrastructure. The infrastructure is geared to enable the institute to produce technical personnel of high quality. DEPARTMENT: Mechanical Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering started its illustrious journey in 1963. It can boast of one of the most talented faculty among the engineering institutes. There are various research and development projects in Mechanical Engineering that are strongly supported by the institute. Since the inception of the department, it has been the source of attraction for meritorious UG, PG and PhD students. The departmental labs are equipped with a wide range of machines, tools and equipment to broaden the practical knowledge of students. It also incorporates labs to carry out design, simulation and development on latest computer systems. The department lays strong emphasis on helping students acquire practical knowledge. It has played a key role in motivating and assisting the students to freely explore the departmental resources and carry out academic activities. Overview of the STC-cum-Workshop Academicians and Researchers are consistently contributing in the development of nation. The efforts made could be recognised in the form of high impact journal publications and the granted patents. The teaching profession is noble profession, which is closely associated with research now days. Hence, the academician needs to be excellent teacher and researcher at the same time. The prime goal of this event to develop the technical paper writing skills for publishing articles in high impact journals. Thesis writing skills using MS Office and referencing/citation software. Workshop also aimed towards development of skills in teaching techniques viz. teaching pedagogy and patent drafting & filing. The covered objectives are the key skillsets for scholars who are aspirant and passionate about academic/teaching profession. The speakers/experts in the respective domain will contribute their efforts for expert talk and hands-on sessions, which would also indirectly contribute in making “Self-reliant India” (Atma Nirbhar Bharat). Objectives of the STC-cum-Workshop This 5-days STC-cum-Workshop is specially designed to impart knowledge and skills related to journal paper writing, thesis writing with referencing and citations, teaching pedagogy and patent drafting & filing. The PhD research scholars and PG students should be well trained and self- efficient for technical writing with required teaching skills along with patent filing skills. Workshop Contents • Technical paper writing, and Thesis / Report writing • Referencing and citations for papers and thesis using software and MS Office • Research Methodologies and approaches • Teaching pedagogy in context of Engg. Students • Patent drafting and filing The hands-on sessions will be followed by above lecture / expert talk sessions. Resource Persons Faculty/Experts from different IITs, NITs, CFTIs, Central Universities, Industries and NIT Kurukshetra having the relevant expertise in the domain will be the resource persons. Important dates Registration Deadline: 7th Dec 2024 STC Dates : 9th Dec – 13th Dec 2024 *All correspondence/clarifications should be addressed to the coordinators via, E-mail: stc.med.nitkkr@gmail.com Who should attend? This hybrid mode STC-cum-workshop is open to the UG / PG students, PhD scholars, and interested Faculties and Industry Professionals from different engineering disciplines. The programme will be conducted in hybrid mode, and the certificate will be provided to all the participants who register and attend the programme (minimum 75% attendance is compulsory). Registration Fee Details The registration fee structure is as follows: Participant Registration Fee (in Rs.) UG Students 300/- PG/PhD Scholars 500/- Faculty Members / Industry Professionals 1000/- * The registration is compulsory for all the participants. The registration fee is completely non-refundable. Special Note for the Participants who opted to attend the STC in Off-Line Mode (In-Person) Reporting date and time/venue at the Institute: 09/12/2024 at 09:30 am in the Conference Room, MED, NIT Jalandhar. Accommodation and Travel Accommodation will be provided on the basis of availability in hostels/guest house (on sharing) on payment basis. No TA/DA will be provided to attend the program. Meals will be provided on paid basis. How to Apply? The interested participants must deposit the registration fee through SBI Collect with the following the steps as given below: Step 1: https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect/icollecthome.htm Step 2: Select Educational Institutions. Step 3: Select State HARYANA and search for DIRECTOR NIT KURUKSHETRA in search bar. Then Select DIRECTOR NIT KURUKSHETRA (State: Haryana) option at the bottom. Step 4: Select Payment Category (SD3PD 2024) Step 5: Proceed (Fill the requested details & submit). ▪ Generate the Payment Slip and attach it with the Registration Form using the following link https://forms.gle/ruMYGRQMkoinVMFt7