URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/Advt.No_.33.2023.pdf
Title: Advt.No.33.2023
Description: 
Word Count: 1372
--------------------------------------------------
Page 1 of 2 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.33/2023 Recruitment of Project Associate-I/Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the research project funded by SERB-DST, Govt. of India Applications are invited from the Indian nationals for the one post of Project Associate-I (PA-I)/Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for a SERB sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below: Title of the Project : Soft-collinear effective theory approach to precision angularity at high energy scattering experiments Project duration : Initially for a period of one year and extendable for one more year based on performance (Project is for 2 years). Principal Investigator : Dr. Tanmay Maji, Department of Physics, NIT Kurukshetra. Monthly Emolument : Rs. 25,000 (Consolidated). Basic Qualifications : B.Sc. (Physics) and M.Sc. (Physics) from a recognized Institute/ University with at least 55% marks or at least 6.0/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). Preference will be given to candidates having working experience in High Energy Physics. Also candidates having qualified GATE or CSIR- UGC NET (LS) are preferred. Job Description : The Junior Research Fellow/PA-I is required to assist in carrying out various activities under the project to complete the objectives and deliverables in time as per schedule. However, the candidate will be allowed to register for his/her Ph.D. degree in the Department if Qualified. Age limit : 28 years Application Procedure : Interested candidate should send their application in the prescribed format including photograph and signed copy of educational qualifications, and a statement of interest must be sent to Dr. Tanmay Maji (PI) by e-mail or by post on or before 29th January 2024. Address to send the application form through e-mail is tanmayphy@nitkkr.ac.in OR tanmayhep@gmail.com Address to send hard copy of the application is : Dr. Tanmay Maji, Assistant Professor Room No.A226, Department of Physics National Institute of Technology(NIT) Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119, India. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the position they intend to apply. Page 2 of 2 2. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of interest on or before 29.01.2024. The application should be sent to Dr. Tanmay Maji, Assistant Professor Grade-I, Room No.A226, Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, Haryana (136119), India or through e-mail at tanmayphy@nitkkr.ac.in and tanmayhep@gmail.com 3. Candidate should have good Mathematical skills, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computer programing. 4. The project duration is 2 years or position is co-terminus with the project. 5. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 6. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. 7. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 8. Appointment will be contractual in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions for similar cases. 9. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communications in this regard will be entertained. 10. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their Applications. 11. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 12. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 13. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 14. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD program at Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet certain eligibility requirements and also qualify the written examination and interview as per rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c Page 1 of 2 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.33/2023 Recruitment of Project Associate-I/Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the research project funded by SERB-DST, Govt. of India Applications are invited from the Indian nationals for the one post of Project Associate-I (PA-I)/Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for a SERB sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below: Title of the Project : Soft-collinear effective theory approach to precision angularity at high energy scattering experiments Project duration : Initially for a period of one year and extendable for one more year based on performance (Project is for 2 years). Principal Investigator : Dr. Tanmay Maji, Department of Physics, NIT Kurukshetra. Monthly Emolument : Rs. 25,000 (Consolidated). Basic Qualifications : B.Sc. (Physics) and M.Sc. (Physics) from a recognized Institute/ University with at least 55% marks or at least 6.0/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). Preference will be given to candidates having working experience in High Energy Physics. Also candidates having qualified GATE or CSIR- UGC NET (LS) are preferred. Job Description : The Junior Research Fellow/PA-I is required to assist in carrying out various activities under the project to complete the objectives and deliverables in time as per schedule. However, the candidate will be allowed to register for his/her Ph.D. degree in the Department if Qualified. Age limit : 28 years Application Procedure : Interested candidate should send their application in the prescribed format including photograph and signed copy of educational qualifications, and a statement of interest must be sent to Dr. Tanmay Maji (PI) by e-mail or by post on or before 29th January 2024. Address to send the application form through e-mail is tanmayphy@nitkkr.ac.in OR tanmayhep@gmail.com Address to send hard copy of the application is : Dr. Tanmay Maji, Assistant Professor Room No.A226, Department of Physics National Institute of Technology(NIT) Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119, India. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the position they intend to apply. Page 2 of 2 2. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of interest on or before 29.01.2024. The application should be sent to Dr. Tanmay Maji, Assistant Professor Grade-I, Room No.A226, Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, Haryana (136119), India or through e-mail at tanmayphy@nitkkr.ac.in and tanmayhep@gmail.com 3. Candidate should have good Mathematical skills, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computer programing. 4. The project duration is 2 years or position is co-terminus with the project. 5. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 6. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. 7. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 8. Appointment will be contractual in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions for similar cases. 9. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communications in this regard will be entertained. 10. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their Applications. 11. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 12. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 13. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 14. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD program at Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet certain eligibility requirements and also qualify the written examination and interview as per rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c