URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Adobe-Scan-24-Jun-2024-1-1.pdf
Title: Adobe-Scan-24-Jun-2024-1-1.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 617
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA OFFICE OF THE DEAN (STUDENTS' WELFARE) No. Dean (SW)/24/192 AN APPEAL TO ALL ALUMNI OF REC KURUKSHETRA AND NIT KURUKSHETRA Dear Alumni, Date: 24-06-2024 With warm greotings from the Institution! Alumni of any institution are the most important stakeholders and strength It gives me immense pleasure to inform you that the Board of Governors (BoG) of IT Kurukshetra have established National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Alumni Endowment Board (NITK-AEB) to manage Alumni Endowment Fund (AEF) to be received from the Alumni of Regional College of Engineering Kurukshetra (RECK) and National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra (NITKKR). Apart from this, the role of Alumni is also very important in various issues such as academic development. guidance, placement of students etc. All great institutions through-out the world are supported, nurtured, patronized and marketed by its Alumni. Let us come forward and support the institution to fulfill the objective of becoming a world class institution in a time to Come. Most of the RECKERs and NITKKRIANs have earned internalional reputation for imparting values based education of sustainable quality. They may have also achieved significant milestones in their professional and personal journey. Alumni is the most important building block of an institution on which progress and success of the institution depends heavily. The interpersonal connections between the alumni and the institution is a key aspect for professional development of the students in terms of securing placements and enhanced internship opportunities in reputed world class organizations. The alumni also contribute in development of the syllabi according to the latest industry trends resulting in development of the human resource inline with the industry requirements. In this challenging era of globalization, I urge all the RECKERS and NITKKRIANs to come forward to participate in the process of development and expansion of this institution of learning so that it can significantly contribute to the vision of Viksit Bharat @2047. The NITKKR have placed the salient features of the NITK-AEB and NITK-AEF on its website under Alumni tab. The alumni are requested to go through the contents and suggest the administration of the Institute for further improvement in the processlguidelines for effective and transparent use of the AEF. Page 01 of 02 All the alumni of the Institution are also requested to reg1ster thernself as Alumni through the google form link uploaded on the Instiltute wobsito under Alumni tab The link is also given below You are also requesled to share this document with your batch mates and other alumni of the Institute who are in your contact list so that they can also get regislered through the google form link. It is to be noted that no person or group of persons as Association for Alumni of this Institute have been authorized or recognised to accept donations, gifts, endowment funds etc_from_the Alumni of RECK /_NITKKR. Therefore, you are requested to be more vigilant and donate directly to the Institute only in the bank account mentioned on the Institute website. https./Morms.gle/ZhD493eCQaGK5Qx6A We look forward to your active participation in the overall development of the institution and help us in shaping it into one of the best global institutions. Kindly also keep on looking at various announcements on the Institute website (www.nitkkr,ac.in) under Alumni tab and choose the programme where you can support All Alumni of institute (Through institute website) Copy to: 1. 2. Dean (Students' Welfare) Assistant Registrar to the Director for the kind information of the Director. PS to the Registrar llc for the kind information of the Registrar l/c. Page 02 of 02 Dean...Students Welfare is the authorized person to have all sorts of correspondence with Alumni. our action plan and participate in relevant activities with your batchmates and family.