URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/SPOT-Round-Merit-List-MBA-admission-2025-27.pdf
Title: SPOT-Round-Merit-List-MBA-admission-2025-27.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 932
--------------------------------------------------
No:* o}Alt.esl+Ae Dar{el* ao }ot lo*r, DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA, (Instit ution of National Importance) (Ministry of Education, Government of India) Haryana(India)- 136119 Merit List SPOT Round MBA Admission 2025-27 Open Category (Seats Available:05) EWS Category (Seats Available:0I) Date of Admission : SPOT Round MBA Admission Counselling 10:00 AM to 12:00 Noon Imporlant Notes: t. The candidates are advised to physically report to the Deportment of Business Administration along with complete Fee and Documents os given ot the end of this communication. The candidates must refer the ottached guidelines for further Admission process. l'h.rsit'ull.t' Reporting time is strictl"l, till l2 lloon onl.1:. LATE {.o-IIERS IT'ILL I/OT BE E,\'TERT.lilVED ) Merit No. Unique ID Name Father's Name I S-OPEN-OI Hitesh Goyal Sunil Goyal 2. S-OPEN-02 Tamanna Vijay Kumar Garg J. S-OPEN-03 Raunish Kathpalia Rahul Kathpalia 4. S-OPEN-04 Paras Khem Raj 5. S-OPEN-05 Aditi Mahinder Rana 6. S-OPEN-06 Sheena Sushil Kumar Mittal 7. S-OPEN-07 Megha Amit 8. S-OPEN-08 Bhoomi Lalit Arora 9. S-OPEN-09 Jagriti Jagpal 10. S-OPEN-IO Bhavya Rajesh Arora Merit No. Unique ID Name Fatherrs Name I S-EWS-OI Jyoti jha Anjani KumarjhaW SC Category (Seats Available:04) p g"w ,7/\ , Head of Depatment Department of BusinessAdministration National lnstitute of Technotogy Kurukshetra-1 3611 g List of Not Qualified Candidates Not qualified in GD/PI Harshil Budhiraja Not qualified in GD/PI Not qualified in GD/PI Amit Singla Not qualified in GD/PI Not qualified in GD/PI Not qualified in GD/PI i# Merit No. Unioue ID Name Father's Name I S-SC-O I Shivani Sanjay Kumar 2. S-SC-02 Yash Devender Sr. No. Name Father's Name Remarks 1 Sahil Sandeep Kumar 2. Jatinder Kumar Garv Sehgal Sandeep Sehgal 4. Gaurangi 5. Lakshay Kulbhushan 6. Tripti Suman Manoj Kumar Suman The candidates are required to produce the following documents, in original at the time of Admission: i. CAT / MAT / CMAT /Any Other National Level Test Result Card ii. Class X Marks Sheet iii. Class XII Mark Sheet iv. Grades/Morks Sheet of Quolifying Degree d degree is awarded or qualifying exam is passed. In case the condidote hos not passed all semester/year of Qualifying Degree the candidate must produce the marks sheet / grade sheet of passed semester / year of Qualtfying Degree. v. Bachelor Degree/Provisional Certificate (ddegree completed) vi. Certificote of oppearing in /inal semester/year of Quahfying Degree from the co I I ege/inst it ute/u niv e rs ity (A n nex ure-I I) vii. Choracler Certificate From The Institulion Last Attended viii. Notorized Gap certi/icate, d applicant has gop of one yeor or more ix. Category Certi/icote , If Applicoble (For SC/ST/OBC/PH/PWD/EWS ONLV) x. For OBC Condidates the Non-creamy layer certi/icate must be issued on or after lst April 2025 by the competent authority not below the rank of Tehsildar/Naib Te h s il dar (An nex ure- I). xi. For EWS Candidates, the certi/icute must be issued on or after lst April 2025 b1t the competent authorit-y not below the rank of Tehsildar/Nuib Tehsildar (Annexure-II). xii. (tndertaking of lote submission of quoltfying examinotion Certificate (if Degree is not c o mp I eted) (A nnexure- I I I). xiii. Six Copies of Recent Colour Passport Size Photogruph In Addition o A set of Pholo Copies of all the ubove mentioned documents. w (Juirlelincs ltrr SI,OT Round- MBA Admission (2025-27) ' The candidates are required to remain present physically in the Department of Business Administration, NIT Kurukshetra on 21't August, 2025 for Spot Round MBA Admission Counselling. ' l{cprrttitt('tintc li)r attcndancc arrcl rcgistration is ['letrveen l0:00 AM to l2:00 (Noon)* *Reporting time r's strictly till 12 Noon only. LATE COMERS VILL Nor BE t:;\ l'liItT-lI\I:D. The Department will not consider any such request for delay in arrival due to train/bus/any other mode of transportation in any circumstances whatsoever. Any candidate who fails to report physically and sign the Attendance sheet between above mentioned timing, their candidature will get cancelled and will not be considered for further admission process. It is mandatory for candidates to sign the Attendance sheet to further participate in the spot round admission process at Departmdnt of Business Administration. The MBA seats (subject to available seats in the respective category) will be offered to the shortlisted candidates (in order of merit) only out of those who report physically for admission process in the Department of Business Administration. l'hrsical rc;rorting tinre for rcgistration: l0:00 AM to l2:00 (Noon) Reporting Venue: The Department of Business Administration, First Floor, NIT Kurukshetra . Admission Counselling Timing: 12:00 PM onwardsw a I The fees shall be deposited ONLY throueh SBI Collect (https ://www.on I inesbi.com/sbico I lect/ico I lecthome.htm) l. The fees will be deposited with the assigned roll number (to be provided by the academic section on 2l .08.2025) and unique Id (mentioned in the SPOT Round Merit List) only. No claim will be entertained for any mistakes on the part of the candidate. 2. After the deposit of fees, the candidate must submit the Fees receipt in the department till 04:00 PM for further process. 3. The candidates who do not deposit the FULL fees will lose his/her seat in the respective category and the seat will be offered to next available candidate in order of merit. Further no claim will be entertained in anv manner. 4. No candidate will be considered for MBA Admission in anv circumstance who have not appeared in the GD and PI process. 5. The admission will be strictly provisional and will be confirmed only after the complete fees submission and the subsequent verification of their original documents at the time of physical reporting in the department.