URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Brochure-for-M.Sc-Economics.pdf
Title: Microsoft Word - M.Sc Brochure Dated 21st May 2025
Description: 
Word Count: 1251
--------------------------------------------------
About M.Sc. Economics program M.Sc Economics program is being introduced for the first time at NIT Kurukshetra by the Department of Humanities and social sciences, marking a significant expansion of its academic offerings into the domain of economic and public policy. With this launch, NIT Kurukshetra becomes the only NIT in the country to offer M.Sc. in Economics, opening new avenues for students with strong analytical and quantitative aptitude. This program has been thoughtfully designed to: • Build a rigorous foundation in economic theory and quantitative techniques • Equip students with practical data analysis skills using modern software tools like R and Stata • Develop critical thinking for tackling real-world economic and policy challenges • Com relev Kuru inter build Elig Grad Univ crite B.A and as o engi Mod To (Eco cand (Join (Eco Cand exam for adm of s norm And prepare graduates for advanced research, policy roles, and careers in academia, government, and industry. mbining technical depth with policy vance, the program reflects NIT ukshetra’s commitment to rdisciplinary excellence and nation- ding through high-quality education. gibility duation from any recognized versity/Institute as per laid down eria of JAM i.e. B.Sc. (Economics)/ . (Economics)/B.Sc. (Statistics)/ BCA B.Sc./B.A./ B.Com. with Mathematics one of the subjects. No restrictions for ineering graduates. de of Admission apply for admission to M.Sc. onomics) at NIT Kurukshetra, a didate is required to qualify in the JAM nt Admission Test) for M.Sc. onomics) conducted by IITs. didates appearing for their final degree mination shall also be eligible to appear the admission test. However, their mission will be provisional. Reservation eats will be as per the Govt. of India ms. Seat Matrix  Total: 3 Financed)  Reservati Program H  Aligned w  Strong fou  Research-  R and Sta  Taught by Career Opp  Analyst, R  Jobs in RB  PhD prep Program St The M.Sc. Kurukshetra semesters w offering a quantitative Core Curri Students be Microecono x 0 (25 Regular + 5 Self- ) ons as per GoI norms Highlights with global curriculum trends undation in quantitative tools -based dissertation/project ata programming exposure y expert faculty portunities Researcher, Data Scientist BI, NITI Aayog, Think Tanks aration (India/abroad) tructure – M.Sc. Economics Economics program at NIT a is structured across four with a total of 83 credits, blend of rigorous theory, methods, and applied research. iculum gin with strong foundations in omics, Macroeconomics, Mathematics, and Statistics for Economics, alongside hands-on learning in R and Stata for programming and data analysis. Courses such as Econometrics, Development Economics, and Public Economics ensure both breadth and depth in economic understanding. Applied Learning Each semester includes lab components and programming modules to develop real-world data skills. A full-semester dissertation/ project in the final term equips students with research and analytical capabilities. Electives and Specializations Students can choose from a wide range of interdisciplinary electives, including: Data Science, Game Theory, Political Economy Health, Labour and Financial Economics, Behavioural Economics, Environmental Economics, Machine Learning, Experimental and Spatial Econometrics. Language & Value-Based Learning Non-credit courses on German/French, Human Values, and the Indian Knowledge System, Teachings of Gita, Thought Lab. About Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, steeped in history and mythology, is a place ofgreat spiritual significance where Lord Krishna delivered the divine message of Shrimad Bhagavad Gita. This place from where knowledge spread far and wide was chosen as his capital by King Harshwardhana. It is one of the premier Centre of pilgrimage, attracting devotees in a steady streamall- round the year. Kurukshetra is a railway junction on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala section of the Northern Railway. It is about 160 kms from Delhi. The Institute is about 10 kms from Pipli, a well-known road junction on the Sher Shah Suri Marg (NH-1), and about 5 kms from Kurukshetra Railway Station. About the Institute National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, one of the 31NITs in the country, is a premier center of learning and research in various disciplines of Engineering and Management. It trains and develops high caliber professionals to serve not only the country but also the worldat large. Established in 1963 as an REC- a joint enterprise ofthe Government of India and the Government of Haryana - the college was elevated to a National Institute with Deemed University status in June 2002. The Institute has made rapidstrides in expanding and upgrading facilities, enhancing the quality of education and strengthening the linkage with industry. The Institute Alumni are well placed in reputed organizations in India and abroad. About the Department The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, one of the thirteen teaching Departments of the Institute is devoted to fulfill the mission of imparting quality education in Humanities and Social Sciences that develops innovative and competent engineers who are socially responsive citizens and can undertake research that generates prime knowledge forthe growth of industry and society and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs. The Department is continuously involved in expanding the teaching-learning process to integrate humanistic values and social concerns with technical education. The Department provides doctoral (Ph.D.) facilities in the areas of Economics, Management, English and Psychology. Currently, the Department has strength of 29 PhD scholars across multi- disciplinary settings (including 8 in Economics domain on various research topics of Macroeconomics, Development Economics, International Economics, Health Economics). Apart from teaching and research the department has been actively involved in organizing various programs like seminars, conferences, workshops, summer schools, etc. Vision To be a role model in imparting education and research in the fields of social sciences, responsive to global challenges. Mission To impart quality education in Social Sciences that develops innovative and competent engineers and socially responsive citizens and to undertake research that generates prime knowledge resources for the growth of industry and society and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs. Programme Offered I Under Graduate Courses: Department contributes following compulsory courses for B.Tech. Programmes: 1. Economics for Engineers 2. Financial Education 3. Business Studies 4. Professional Ethics and IPR 5. Business Management 6. Communication Skills in English Apart from above, Department offers various B.Tech courses to the students. II PhD Program Doctoral research facilities are available in the department in following areas: i. Economics ii. Management iii. English Literature and Language iv. Psychology No. of PhDs I. Completed: 23 II. Ongoing: 29 Infrastructure: Computer Lab: Department has well established computer lab for research scholars. Lab has facility of high speed networking for access of various research journals and databases. The utility of lab for research scholars is to extract the secondary data, analysis of data, write ups for the thesis and making power point presentations of the research work. Language Laboratory: Two Language Laboratories with Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL) facilities are functional in the Department to develop the English language proficiency of the students and to meet the growing market demand of a smart and articulate workforce. It is specially designed for student-teacher interaction and greater concentration for language learning. The Labs also have a large number of audio and video aids and books for all levels including beginners, intermediate and advanced. The labs are used by B.Tech. students of First and Second Semester. Faculty of the Department Head of Department Dr. Kiran Mor, Professor (Economics) Faculty Dr. Vikas Choudhary, Professor Dr. Shabnam, Assistant Professor Dr. Geeta Sachdeva, Assistant Professor Dr. Ashwani, Assistant Professor (On Lien) Dr. Shahida, Assistant Professor Dr. Rajesh Sharma, Assistant Professor For any further information, please contact Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra – 136119. 01744-233520, 8199990554, hssnitkkr@gmail.com https://ccmn.admissions.nic.in/ https://nitkkr.ac.in/m-sc/