URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/Girls-Hostels-F.pdf
Title: Girls-Hostels-F.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 733
--------------------------------------------------
Hostel Name: Bhagirathi Bhawan Hostel Overview  Bhagirathi Bhawan has capacity of 198 students. Total 198 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are single seated). Bhagirathi Bhawan is three-storey building, in which threeblocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B & C) block respectively.  Bhagirathi Bhawan has big dining hall, 1 common room,3 guest rooms, 2 store, 2 kitchen, 2 office 2 I Net center,1 night attendant room, 4 inside beautiful green loan & also surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel, Supervisor is available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 5.00 PM and day attendant & night attendant are also doing punctual duty. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Bhagirathi Bhawan has 3 scale sweepers & 3 MTW sweepers, in which 4 sweepers are placed in blocks, one in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and 2 for outside, also 1 Mali is available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in which Colour TV and speaker is available for students.  In the hostel 01 parking shed is available where students can park their bicycle. Contact us: 01744-258 Email: bhagirathibhawan@nitkkr.ac.in Hostel Name: Cauvery Bhawan Hostel Overview 1. Cauvery Bhawan has capacity of 285 students. Total 292 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are single seated). Cauvery Bhawan is Three-storey building, in which three blocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B, & C) block respectively. 2. Cauvery Bhawan has one big dining hall, 1 common room, 6 Guest rooms ,1 warden office and 1 visitors room well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview 1. For managing Hostel, Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor and day /night Attendant are 24 hours available in the hostel according to duty roster. 2. Security guards are available 24 Hours at the Girls hostel barrier. 3. Cauvery Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students at regular mess timings. In addition to this two sweeper are placed in each floor for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also one Gardner is available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview 1. Common room is available to students in which big LED TV, Newspaper and T.T. Table. 2. In the hostel one parking shed are available in the Cauvery hostel, where students can park their bicycle. 3. A canteen is available in the Cauvery Bhawan for refreshment, which provides facilities to students up to 12.00AM. 4. A Café is available outside of Cauvery Bhawan for refreshment, which provides facilities to students up to 12.00AM. Contact us: 01744-256 Email: cauveryhostel19@nitkkr.ac.in Hostel Name: Kalpana Chawla Hostel Hostel Overviews  Kalpana Chawla hostel has capacity of 600 students. Total 600 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are single seated). Kalpana Chawla hostel is five-storey building, in which two blocks have been made, which are divided into (A&B) block respectively.  Kalpana Chawla hostel has 1 big dining hall, 1 big recreational hall, 1 Gym, 1 library, 1 reading room, 3 common rooms, 3 Guest rooms, 1 visitor room & well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel, Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor and day attendants are available in the Hostel from 08:00 AM to 9:00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night attendants are provided for security of the hostel in night.  Kalpana Chawla hostel has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students at regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also 1 Mali is available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common rooms are available to students which have big LED TV, Newspaper and Magazines are available and T.T. Table, Basketball, Carom Board & Chess Board are available for student’s recreation.  In hostel premises two concrete courts are prepared for facilitating outdoor game to students. One for basketball and second for badminton game.  Lifts are available in the hostel for student’s convenience.  A Cafe is available outside Kalpana Chawla hostel for refreshment, which provides facilities to students up to 11.00 PM. Contact us: 01744-233254 Email : kch@nitkkr.ac.in