URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/GeM-Bidding-Corr-8545479-1-1.pdf
Title: GeM-Bidding-Corr-8545479-1-1.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 1582
--------------------------------------------------
Bid Number: GEM/2025/B/6853336 Dated: 06-11-2025 Bid Corrigendum GEM/2025/B/6853336-C1 Following terms and conditions supersede all existing “Buyer added Bid Specific Terms and conditions” given in the bid document or any previous corrigendum. Prospective bidders are advised to bid as per following Terms and Conditions: Buyer Added Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions 1. OPTION CLAUSE: The Purchaser reserves the right to increase or decrease the quantity to be ordered up to 25 percent of bid quantity at the time of placement of contract. The purchaser also reserves the right to increase the ordered quantity up to 25% of the contracted quantity during the currency of the contract at the contracted rates. The delivery period of quantity shall commence from the last date of original delivery order and in cases where option clause is exercised during the extended delivery period the additional time shall commence from the last date of extended delivery period. The additional delivery time shall be (Increased quantity ÷ Original quantity) × Original delivery period (in days), subject to minimum of 30 days. If the original delivery period is less than 30 days, the additional time equals the original delivery period. The Purchaser may extend this calculated delivery duration up to the original delivery period while exercising the option clause. Bidders must comply with these terms. 2. Bidders shall quote only those products (Part of Service delivery) in the bid which are not obsolete in the market and has at least 5 years residual market life i.e. the offered product shall not be declared end-of- life by the OEM before this period. 3. Bidders are advised to check applicable GST on their own before quoting. Buyer will not take any responsibility in this regards. GST reimbursement will be as per actuals or as per applicable rates (whichever is lower), subject to the maximum of quoted GST %. 4. Installation, Commissioning, Testing, Configuration, Training (if any - which ever is applicable as per scope of supply) is to be carried out by OEM / OEM Certified resource or OEM authorised Reseller. 5. IMPORTED PRODUCTS: In case of imported products, OEM or Authorized Seller of OEM should have a registered office in India to provide after sales service support in India. The certificate to this effect should be submitted. 6. Bidders can also submit the EMD with Account Payee Demand Draft in favour of Director, NIT, Kurukshetra payable at Kurukshetra . Bidder has to upload scanned copy / proof of the DD along with bid and has to ensure delivery of hardcopy to the Buyer within 5 days of Bid End date / Bid Opening date. 7. Successful Bidder can submit the Performance Security in the form of Account Payee Demand Draft also (besides PBG which is allowed as per GeM GTC). DD should be made in favour of Director, NIT, Kurukshetra payable at Kurukshetra . After award of contract, Successful Bidder can upload scanned copy of the DD in place of PBG and has to ensure delivery of hard copy to the original DD to the Buyer within 15 days of award of contract. 8. Scope of supply (Bid price to include all cost components) : Supply Installation Testing Commissioning of Goods and Training of operators and providing Statutory Clearances required (if any) 9. Bidder's offer is liable to be rejected if they don't upload any of the certificates / documents sought in the Bid document, ATC and Corrigendum if any. 10. Buyer Added text based ATC clauses 1. Provide bank account details of the firm for the refund of EMDs etc. 1 / 3 2. Sellers are requested to submit the EMD (if applicable) only through Demand Draft in favour of the Dire ctor, NIT Kurukshetra, or through SBI Collect (Search SBI Collect on Google → SBI Collect → Educational Ins ti tution → Director, NIT Kurukshetra → Tender Fee/EMD/performance Security (Category) → Payment). 3. Revised Terms and condition for Rolling Thin Film Oven (RTFO) Bidders must be supply instruments with NABL calibration certificates (Its own calibration facility is not n ecessary) . 11. Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file. 12. Dedicated /toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support : BIDDER/OEM must have Dedicated/toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support. 13. Escalation Matrix For Service Support : Bidder/OEM must provide Escalation Matrix of Telephone Numbers for Service Support. 14. Warranty period of the supplied products shall be 5 years from the date of final acceptance of goods or after completion of installation, commissioning & testing of goods (if included in the scope of supply), at consignee location. OEM Warranty certificates must be submitted by Successful Bidder at the time of delivery of Goods. The seller should guarantee the rectification of goods in case of any break down during the guarantee period. Seller should have well established Installation, Commissioning, Training, Troubleshooting and Maintenance Service group in INDIA for attending the after sales service. Details of Service Centres near consignee destinations are to be uploaded along with the bid. 15. Timely Servicing / rectification of defects during warranty period: After having been notified of the defects / service requirement during warranty period, Seller has to complete the required Service / Rectification within 5 days time limit. If the Seller fails to complete service / rectification with defined time limit, a penalty of 0.5% of Unit Price of the product shall be charged as penalty for each week of delay from the seller. Seller can deposit the penalty with the Buyer directly else the Buyer shall have a right to recover all such penalty amount from the Performance Security (PBG).Cumulative Penalty cannot exceed more than 10% of the total contract value after which the Buyer shall have the right to get the service / rectification done from alternate sources at the risk and cost of the Seller besides forfeiture of PBG. Seller shall be liable to re-imberse the cost of such service / rectification to the Buyer. Disclaimer The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity / restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and / or terms and conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is / are incorporated by the Buyer regarding following, the bid and resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of bidding process without any notice:- 1. Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order / Office Memorandum issued by DPIIT in this regard. 2. Seeking EMD submission from bidder(s), including via Additional Terms & Conditions, in contravention to exemption provided to such sellers under GeM GTC. 3. Publishing Custom / BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any Category item bunched with it. 4. Creating BoQ bid for single item. 5. Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name. 6. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders. 7. Floating / creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services. 8. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for attached categories, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries) 9. Mandating foreign / international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without specifying equivalent Indian Certification / standards. 10. Seeking experience from specific organization / department / institute only or from foreign / export experience. 11. Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories. 2 / 3 12. Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy. 13. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses. 14. Asking for any Tender fee / Bid Participation fee / Auction fee in case of Bids / Forward Auction, as the case may be. 15. Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined by buyer in system generated bid template as indicated above in the Bid Details section, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase Preference sections of the bid, unless otherwise allowed by GeM GTC. 16. In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added additional scope of work/ additional terms and conditions/or any other document. If buyer needs more items along with the main item, the same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogs or bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope of Work. Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller within 4 days of bid publication on GeM. Buyer is duty bound to reply to all such representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to such representations. *This document shall overwrite all previous versions of Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions. This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions 3 / 3