URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Vol-2-issue-1-january-2018.pdf
Title: Vol-2-issue-1-january-2018.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 4728
--------------------------------------------------
ffi National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra (I tuqitutian of Natioruf Imp ortance) iiiiiiii, ftrA,p#ftu lFrom tfre (Desfrof (Dean futseorcfr anf Consuftonry The New Year 2018 brings renewed aspirations and hope of success, peace and prosperity. And with the same spirit, we present 2"0 Volume of the R & D Newsletter of NIT Kurukshetra. This r'ssue presents glimpses of R & D activities undertaken by the faculty, patenB granted/fiIed, conferences organised, and awards of Ph.D. degrees during the odd semester of the academic sessfon 2077- 18. We have also signed Memorandums of Understanding with dffirent R & D organisations and academic institutions with major emphasis to undertake joint research efforts and develop close interaction among aII stakeholders. An innovation and incubation centre has also been initiated in the institute which aims to provide the students with mentorship from industry and academia alike. The Centre will enable the students to experiment with their innovative ideas and showcase their creative best. Looking forward to your continued support. Bestrcgands, Profi Bruh@tt$ngh 6)6,"* To be a role model in technical education and research, responsive to global challenges To impart quality technical education that develops in novative professiona ls a nd entre prene u rs a nd to undertake research that generates cutting edge technologies and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs. National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra was established as Regional Engineering College in 1963 to impart technical education and provide research facilities in different disciplines of engineering and technology. With a humble beginning of L2O students in B.Sc. (Engg.) degree course of study, the Institute recognised as Institution of National lmportance now boasts of running 7 B.Tech., 22 MJech., MBA, MCA and Ph.D. programmes in all major areas of engineering, technology, sciences, management and humanities. The academicfabric of the Institute consists of Departments, Schools and Centres. Located in the land of Mahabharata-Kurukshetra, the Institute spreads over 3(X}.acre lush green and environment friendly campus. Ours is a fully residential Institute with excellent on-campus accommodation facilities for students, faculty and staff. There are ten boys and fourgirls hostels with totalcapacityof over500Ostudent residents. NIT Kurukshetra is committed to fundamental and applied research in frontier areas of engineering, technology and science streams. Expanding list of sponsored research projects reflects its noteworthy position in cuttingedge research. Teaching and learning processes and research and development activities are supported by central facilities. The central library with state-of-the-art facilities houses a huge collection of over 1, 90,000 documents. The library subscribes to over 4500 journals and online resources. The centre of computing and networking provides computing and networking infrastructure for information access to students, faculty and staff through a campus wide local area network with OFC backbone. Focussed attempts are made for the growth of the students by providing them with an array of extra- and co-curricular activities. State-of-the-art sports and games facilities including swimming pool, and technical and cultural clubs contribute to wholesome health and holistic development of the students. During'lts exemplary journey of over five decades, NIT Kurukshetra has been successful in making remarkable strfuJes in teaching, learni ng, resea rch and otrtreacfi actffiies. I Design and Development of Solar Assisted Sotid Desiccant Air Gonditioning Systern for India Sponsor: Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Govt. of India Dr. AvadheshYadav Department of Mechanical Engineering Email : avadheshyadava@nitkkr. ac. in The objective of this project is to fulfill the requirements of human comfort conditions throughout the year with the use of solar energy. A mathematical model of desiccant wheel will be proposed, which will increase the performance of desiccant wheel with novel designs at low regeneration temperature. Thermal analysis of the system and performance of each component will be analyzed on the basis of adequate indices (coefficient of performance, dehumidification effectiveness and sensible effectiveness ratio). In this project, different configuration cycles (ventilation cycle, regeneration cycle and mix cycle) will be studied and then the system will be experimentally investigated. Economical aspect will be analyzed for year round performance of desiccant air conditioning system. The experimental setup will be controlled by a PLC system, through which rotational speed of desiccant wheel, air flow and water flow will operate automatically. The auxiliary heater will be controlled on set temperature of ai; which is measuring after passing th rough solar air collector. Performance Enhancernent of Vapor Cornpre ssion Refrigeration System of Srnall Gapacity Using Ejector its 2n E)rprnsion Device Dr. Gulshan Sachdeva Mechanical Engineering Department Email : gulshansachdeva@nitkkr. ac.in The objective of the project is to enhance the performance of vapor compression system of small capacity with the use of ejector as an expansion device. To do this, ejector will be designed for the required performance by using the existing thermodynamic models developed by the various researchers. Engineering Equation Solver will be used to design the system. After getting it manufactured as per the designed geometry, the experimental set up will be fabricated in such a wa1' so that it can run on any expansion device whether ejector or conventional capillary tube so that the comparison c' :-e performance can be made with the conventional vapor compression system. Multi evaporator system will also be desis^e: a-: fabricated. Sponsor: Science and Engineerhry Rm* M (SERB), Govt of Indio l-rl Development of Ultrasonic Assisted Electrochemical Mechanical Finishing (UAECMF) Process with Modular Tooling System for Precision finishing of Gears. Spottsor: science and Engineering Research Board (9ERB), Govt of India Dr. Joy Prakash Misra Department of Mechanical Engineering Email : jpmisra@nitkkr.ac.in ECMF is an emerging process for precision finishing of internal cylinders and gears. This project proposal focuses on the development of Ultrasonic Assisted Electrochemical Mechanical Finishing (UAECMF) of gears with modular tooling system. With the assistance of modular tooling system, the proposed machine setup can provide the versatility of running mechanical finishing, ECM, ultrasonic assisted mechanical finishing, ultrasonic assisted ECM, UAECMF process in a single setup and can incorporate different sizes of gears with minimum setup changeover. As this unique technique is capable enough to provide high productivity while satisfying accuracy requirements, it can help gear-manufacturing industries in a big way in India. The experimental investigations will be carried out in three stages: (i) design and development of indigenous machine setup for UAECMF with modular tooling system; (ii) experimental studies and process parameter optimization to explore the effects of process parameters on precision finishing of gears; and (iii) development of an intelligent advisory system for UAECMF of gears by integrating experimental and analytical knowledge into system with user-friendly interface. Data Ptrsion Algorithms forVehicle Detection and Glassification System spnrcor: cARs-Tennirral Ballistics Research Laboratory DRD0, chandigarh Dr.Vikas Mittal (PI) Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Email : vikas_mittal@nitkk.ac.in Dr. Monika Mittal (Go-PI) Department of Electrical Engineering Email : monika_mittal@nitkkr. ac.in Multi-sensor fusion finds applications in many fields such as remote sensing, biomedical, automation industry, aerospace, robotics etc. in addition to applications such as vehicle classification and segmentation that is considered in this project. In vehicle classification and segmentation, observational data may generally be collected using three typ€s of sensors viz. infrared (lR), seismic and acoustic sensors individually. The three sensors provide observations on different physical paramete'rs and, hence, are not sufficient, when used individually. There could be different approaches in achiwing this: Data fusion, lmage fusion (pixel-, feature- and decision levels), information fusion and knowledge fusion. Delirrerables in the project are design, development, simulation and validation of an appropriate algorithm/methodology using a suitable high level IDE such as MATLAB. Modellng and Simulation of Explosive-Driven Hellcal Flux Gompresslon Generatot. Dr. Saurabh Chanana Department of Electrical Engineering Email : saurabh@nitld<r.ac.in It is of special interest to use a Helical Flux Compression Generator (HFCG) together with a pulse- forming network to provide a high voltage pulse for the generation of high-poi,ver microwaves. HFCG usually consists of a conducting cylindrical coil (stator) and a conducting cylindrical tube (armature) filled with high explosives. The HFCG is a very complex component to model, considering the various losses that are present in the generator. Efforts to modelthe physical phenomenon and processes of HFCGs can be classified in two most prominent approaches. One of them is to modelthe equivalent circuit of HFCG and the other is magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) model. However, it is important to note that all HFCG codes rely on at least one heuristic factor. Hence, the simulated performance of HFCG of a radically new design can be quite a bit different. These codes work best for limited changes from baseline design where the code has been verified against the experimental data. ln light of these facts, the project will have following objectives. Partitlon Recorcry ofWireless SeDsor Networks with the Integration of Unmanaed .trerlal Ycffdee (IIf,Vs) H&EB),Cna oflnJit Dr.ylreodcc p_rg. Department of CoqG hE".er.g Email : virender.nnga@Ftfttr.r.fu The problem of network partition in W5t recirJ entim in the last few years. Several different approaches have been presented to handedir Fdlern of WSN disconnections. The integration of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) wi$ frd JerEr nodes is a now new concept proposed by researchers recently called Fly Ad-hoc ilffi (EAf{Efs}. lt is being proposed for military surveillance and monitoring of the areas s'here the lxrman beings cannot reach. lt is also called the extension of MANET /VANET or sensor networks. lt works in those areas where MANFI/ VANET or traditional sensor nodes cannot reach. Many researchers are doing work in this research area with groun4toground recovery procedure, i.e. recovery of partitioned network with mobile sensors/actors or with deployment of relay nodes. Limited focus has been made in using hybrid solutions for network partition recovery. In view of the above, the main objectives of this research project are: 1. To explore the use of UAV swarms with sensor networks, 2. To develop new fault tolerant solutions, 3. To investigate the proposed solutions in real life applications. Development of Novel Electrode Material for Supercapacitor .H,pplications sponsor: science and Engineering Research Board ($ERB), Govt. of India Dr. Prakash Chand Department of Physics Email : prakash@nitkkr.ac.in Supercapacitors play a vital role in accompanying batteries or fuel cells in their energy storage function by providing backup power supplies to protect against power interruptions. The performance of supercapacitors is intimately related to the electrode materials. However; the development of cutting-edge electrode materials is still a challenging research area and endeavors to improve the energy and power densities of supercapacitors to cover the increasing demands for erectrode materia'o,,,#:i3:fi:rfi,ffiH:;lTffi:lHiL:X'-"r'Jfii:t1Tffi""1:'ff:irT""':?'::i:;H'Jil:l transition metal and rare earth elements doped metal oxides (MnO2, Fe2O3) and metal phosphates (BipO4) with improved energy/power density and long-cycle life. Design and Development of a Eybrid Poryered Liquid Desiccant System for A,ir Conditioning and FreshWater production Govt. of India Dr. Rajneesh Department of Mechanical Engineering Email : rajneesh@nitkkr.ac.in In the project, a hybrid solar/biogas powered liquid desiccant cooling system will be used for fresh water production and human comfort. The proposed system will be designed and developed to withstand the latent as well as the sensible load required in air conditioning. The effectiveness of regenerator and condenser to produce drinking water will also be analysed. This technology also improves indoor air quality as the desiccant material used is anti-bacterial and helps to keep the moulds and air ducts bacteria free. Overall, this system can be considered as the effective tool of satisfying the energy necessities in the developing countries. Sponsor: Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Physics Based.Eccurate Analytical Modeling of AIGaN/GaN High Electron Mobility Transistors. Dr. Ashutosh Nandi Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering Email : ashutoshfec@nitkkr.ac.in lll-nitride wide band-gap semiconductor e.g. GaN, enjoys several attractive physical properties that are of paramount importance for AIGaN/GaN based high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) in high frequency and high power applications. Compact models such as: threshold voltage based model, surface potential based model and charge based model are frequently used to characterize the AIGaN/GaN based HEMTs. For accurate calculation of channel charge density, a complete 2-D solution of Poisson's equation is proposed. Green's function approach using a multizone technique and mixed boundary conditions are proposed to accurately predict the electric field of different regions. The continuity of electric displacement at hetero junction can be used to replace the earlier 1-D charge density and electron energy states expressions to target accurate charge density and fermi energy level, by self consistent solution of Schrodinger's and Poisson's equation in the quantum well. Sponsor: Solid State Physics Laboratory, DRDO, New Delhi Mathematicd Modeling for Bio-Fluid Transport in Arterial Geometries for Drug Delivery AppUcations Sponsor: Science and Engineait g R.acorch Board (SERB), Gov. of India Dr. Paras Ram Mentor/ Principal Investigator Department of Mathematics Email : parasram I 23@@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Shashi Sharma Post Doctoral Fellow Department of Mathematics Email : shashisharmal 984@grmail.com In this proposal, Mathematical model will be developed to study various flow oarameters (e.g. pressure, velocity, flow rate etc.) of peristaltic motion of bio-fluid in elastic tubeT'cnannei (as a simuiated brood vessel) with or without magnetic field. This is fundamentally an applied mathematics proposai. Nevertheless, it has to address the applied and multidisciplinary nature bf the field. From the Mathematics point of view, it has to treat differential problems of different kind: Navier-Stokes equations (coupled with structural models) for the flow in main blood vessels, non-linear one-dimensional hyperbolic equations for pulse wave propagation along the arterial tree, and, finally, systems of differential-algebraic equations for the systemic behavior and auto-regulation mechanisms. Special numerical techniques will be implemented for this purpose. The governing coupled non- linear PDEs will be solved analytically as well numerically using Finite Element (FEM) and Finite Volume method (FVM). Some mathematical software (e.g. MATLAB and MATHEMATICA)will be used for computational work. l-'l Development of Energy Storage Cell uslng .EgrlculturalWaste Sugarcane Bagasse Dr..f,nurag Gaur Department of Physics Email: anuragdph@nitkkr. ac.in Dr. Anurag Gaur developed an energy storage coin cell of 20 mm diameter with 1.5 V using agricultural waste Sugarcane Bagasse. Sugarcane Bagasse (SB) wastes is very cheap and easily available in our region, which are potential raw materials for the preparation of porous carbons with good electrochemical performance. The agriculture wastes (SB) are converted into activated carbon by thermal processes to produce a strong porous structure with enlarged surface area. This obtained porous carbon material having specific capacitance (265 F/gl at0.2A/g is used as one electrode and Lithium as second electrode for energy storage cell. The utilization of agriculturalwaste for energy storage will help not only to achieve rural development but also to find the diversified sources of energyfor improving the energy security of the country. Colorlmetrlc tenlor for the detectlon of mokture ln organlc solrrcnts and appllcatlon ln lnklesg wrltlng Dr. f,mllan lose D Department of Chemistry Email : amilanj osenit@nitkkr. ac. in Dr. Amilan Jose research group developed colorimetric sensors based on Sudan- lll (1) and Alizarin Red S (2) for the detection of a trace amount of water in organic solvents such as THF, acetone, acetonitrile and DMSO. The deprotonated (anionic) forms of 1 and 2 such as 1.F and 2.F are re- protonated by using a trace amount of water. Test papers of 1.F and 2.F in organic solvents with and without moisture showed dramaticchanges in color. Receptor 1.F exhibits high sensitivityforwater in acetone and THF with the detection limit as low as O.OO42 and 0.0058 wt %. Remarkably probes l.F and 2.F are reversible in nature both in solution and test stripes. 1.F and 2.F are reversible and reusable for sensing moisture in the organic solvents with high selectivity, high sensitivity, and fast response. The reversible moisture sensor 1.F has also been used for the application in ink-less writing in paper. Thiswork has been published in ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 20t7,9,25600-25605 (lmpactfactor7.504) |;t Smart Lccldent Preventlon System- an lnnonatlve solutlon to anold road accldents ln Indla TECHgium is an open-innovation initiative on behalf of L&T Technology Services Limited to provide a platform for the nation's most-talented engineering graduates to solve real- world engineering problems. TECHgium provides a platform to search lmagineers among Engineers. A team from NIT Kurukshetra consisting of Mukesh Agrawal, Akshay Verma, and Arun Teja from Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, and Electronics & Communication Engineering Department respectively earned the position in the selected top ideas among L100 concepts. "Smart Accident Prevention System" identifies reckless driving, thread depth and tailgating. The system detects driver's behavior, the tread depth measurement techniques and Anti - Tailgating device comprising of Lidar and speed sensor. Ilarm Malarlya Programme Ashish Aggarwal pursuing his Masters in Business Administration from NIT Kurukshetra has been selected to represent NIT Kurukshetra in "lnternational Youth Goes to Farm Malaysia Program" to be held in September 2Ot8 in Selangor Malaysia. The programme offers him visit to the company, university and agriculture farms to get training and workshop thereon. There will be 30 participants from around the world who will be coming together to compete in the prestigious com petitive event. ri L Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration 2 Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration 5 Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration 7 Course Name Course Area Foreign Faculty Host Faculty Duration SECURE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Mathematical & Computer Sciences Atef Shalan, United States of America Dr. Sarika Jain, Department of Computer Applications L8 - 12 -2O L7 to 23 - !2 -20 17 ADVANCED NUMERICAL METHODS FOR SOLVING STURM.IIOUVIIIE PROBTEMS Mathematical & Computer Sciences Marnix Van Daele, , Belgium Dr. A. S. V. Ravi Kanth, Department of Mathematics 24-01-2018 to 28-01-20 18 NEXT GENERATION MIMO AND OFDM WIRELESS TECHNOLOGIES E lectron ics, Electrical, I nformation & Com m u nication Tech nology ChinthaTellambura,, Canada D. Arvind Kumar, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering 08-1.2-2017 to 17 -12-2017 THE INTERNET OF AIilGS FOR A CONNECTED WORTD Electronics, Electrical, Information & Com m u nication Tech nology San Murugesan, , Australia Dr Kapil, Department of Computer Applications O2-12-20t7 to 06-12-2017 INTRODUCTION TO MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF COMPLEX FLUIDS Mathematical & Computer Sciences Ashwin Vaidya, , United States of America Dr. A. S. V. Ravi Kanth, Department of Mathematics 17 -1-L-20I7 to 22-L1,-2OL7 SENSOR NETWORKS FOR CIVILIAN APPLICATIONS Electron ics, Electrica l, I nformation & Com m u nication Tech nology Dharma P Agrawal, , United States of America Dr. Brij Bhooshan Gupta, Department of Computer Engineering 01-01-2018 to 07-01-2018 VIBRATIONAL SPECTROSCOPY AND THE MOLECUTAR VIBRATIONS Chemical, Bio-Chemical & Material Sciences Rui Fausto,, Portugal Dr. Chetti Prabhakar; Department of Chemistry 15-01-2018 to 19-01-2018 6'o International Conference on Smart Gornputing and Gommunication A two-day, "lnternational conference on Smart Computing and Communication" was conducted by the Department of Computer Applications during 7-8 December,2OtT. The conference was inaugurated with the presence of Hon'ble Director of the Institute along with Chief Guest San Murugesan Director of BRITE Professional Services, Sydney; adjunct professor at University of Western Sydney; and Guest of Honor Dr. Pramod Kumar Meher from Nanyang Technical University. The conference Chairperson Prof. Ashutosh Kumar Singh briefed the august gathering about the conference theme. Followed by, Guest of Honor had elaborated the concept of 'Smart' in general and computing in particular. In conti nuation, Patron of the conference Dr. Satish Kumar had discussed the evolution of technological developments in India. Chief Guest was honored by Hon'ble Director of the institute. Finally the event ended with a formal vote of tha nks from Professor Brah mjit Singh, Pu blication Chair of the conference and Dean (R&C) of the institute. Prof. Vijay K. Vaishnavi, Professor Emeritus, Department of Computer Information Systems, Georgia State U niversity; Prof. Masahiro Fujita from University of Tokyo also delivered the talks. National Gonference on "Digital Revolution and Challenges for Libraries"(29'h HIrA National Gonference) on the 29* Birth Anniversary of Dr. S R Ranganathan (12-13 Augrust r 20lT) A two-day National Conference on "Digital Revolution and Challenges for Libraries" (29'n HLA National Conference) at NIT Kurukshetra was inaugurated by the Hon'ble Director Dr. Satish Kumar. The p rogra m was sta rted with opening welcome note by Dr. Krishan Gopal, organizing secretary and librarian of institute. In his welcome note he welcomed the chief guest, president of Haryana Library Association, delegates, faculty, staff and others present in the function. Prof. Manoj Joshi, President of Haryana Library Association welcomed chief guest Hon'ble Director Dr. Satish Kumar, Prof. Jagtar Singh, Prof. Pratibha Agrawal, delegates, faculty, staffs and others present in the function. ln his welcome address, he highlighted the immense and pioneering contribution made to the field of library science by Dr. S R Ranganathan. After the welcome address Prof. Jagtar singh delivered his key note address wherein he highlighted the digitaltransformation and challenges for the modern library. In this occasion, a souvenir was released relating to the theme of conference by the chief guest and other dignitaries. Hon'ble director Dr. Satish Kumar felicitated Dr. Narendra Shokeen, former librarian of Kurukshetra University. Gonference on Academia-fndustry Interface (8-9 Novemb e4 20171 A two-day Conference on Academia-lndustry Interface held at the Senate hall of the Institute was initiated by Prof. Rajendra Deswal, MentoL Department of Business Administration by enlightening the esteemed guests and the students with his vision for the department and the students. The Presidential address was given by Padma Shri Dr. Satish Kumar, Director Nlt Kurukshetra. He focused upon the integration of all stakeholder for better and cohesive development of the students. He shared his valuable experience of processes and systems shaped in DRDO through the integrated approach where developer; user and producer all are linked. The first speaker for the day was Professor V.K. Gupta, doctorate in Finance and a faculty of Finance at llM Indore. He majorly focussed on Stakeholder Value Management, Customer Delight and a systemic process which involves customers, employees and shareholders satisfaction. Second guest speaker was Mr. Atul Lal, a distinguished alumnus and a social entrepreneur talked about "Charting a Successful Career" where he focussed upon the kind of ATTITUDE and APTITUDE required to be successful in any career. Mr. Nikhil Mathurwas the next speakerwho is head HR (ECO-Rent a Car) and he talked about the various aspects that an HR manager looks while recruiting a human capital. He talked about the kind of expectations that organizations have from the next upcoming generation. The conference was organised by Dr. Neeraj Kaushik and Professor Rajendra Deswal. Dr. Punit Kumar Mechanical Engg. Dr. Lalit Thakur MechanicalEngg. S€tf-Adir# ffiled Shqdder Retractable pin Frictbn StirWirgTool 201-5Lto42866 Soon Hyeok Hong, Subhash Chandra Ghosh, Yao Zhang, Senthilkumar Muthaiah, Cheng Chen, Xiangya Xu ,Chemistry Process of forming an amide L3/496,466 Dr. Avadhesh Yadav Mechanical Engg. Composite desiccant material for the production of fresh water from atmospheric air. Nikhil Marriwala, O. P. Sahu, Anil Vohra, Electronics & Communication Engineering Wi-Fi based Transceiver Using LabVlEW for Software Defined Radio. C-DAC Pune A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 8'n November,2OIT between National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) Pune, the premier R&D organization of the Ministry of Electronics a nd I nformation Tech nology (MeitY) for carrying out R&D in lT, Electronics and associated areas. lt aims to undertake R & D work in the areas of common interest including High Performance Computing and Deep Learning. The MoU envisages to establish a centre of High Performance Computing through installation and deployment of Supercomputer in a Box Solution "PARAM Shavak" at NIT Kurukshetra. Dr. B.R..f,m,bedlar Nff ldandhar National Institute of Technology Kurukhetra, signed a Memorandum of Understanding on 9" December, 2OL7 with Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National lnstitute of Technology Jalandhar to promote academic and research cooperation and developing as Centres of Excellence of higher and technical education. The MoU provides opportunity to exchange scientific and technical know-how for joint su pervision of postgraduate and Ph.D. students, undertaking collaborative research activities through participation in national and internationally funded projects, joint organization of events such as seminars, workshops, conference, and training programs. l*I ELECTRICAL ENGIN EERING DEPARTMENT Development of Simple Techniques for Voltage Regulation and Power Oscillation Damping Mr. Aman Ganesh Prof. Ratna Dahiya, EED, NIT Kurukshetra Dr. G. K. Singh, EED, llT Roorkee (Uttrakhand) On Higher Order Sliding Mode and its Application to Motion Control Mr. Ankur Gob Prof. A. Swarup EED, NIT Kurukshetra Design and Analysis of Triangular Microstrip Antenna Mr. Prabal Pratap Prof. R. S. Bhatia EED, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. Binod Kr. Kanaujia Ambedkar Inst. of Tech., Govt. of NCT Delhi Maximizing the Power Generation of Solar Photovoltaic Arrays under Partial Shading Conditions Ms. Smita Pareek Prof. Ratna Dahiya EED, NIT Kurukshetra Harmonic Mitigation of Induction Furnace Mr.Arvind Dhingra Prof. Ashwani Kumar EED, NIT Kurukhetra Electric Power Quality Evaluation and Benchmarking of Electric Utilities Mr.Lokendra Pal Singh Prof. R. S. Bhatia EED, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. D. K. Jain EED, DCRUSf,, Murthal, (Haryana) Condition Monitoring of Induction Motors Mr.RajulKumar Misra Prof. G.L. Pahuja EED, NIT Kurukshetra Protection lssues of Grid Connected Distri buted Generation Mr. Pankaj Gupta Prof. R. S. Bhatia EED, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. D. K. Jain EED, DCRUSf, Murthal, (Haryana) Ambiguity Tolerant Control Design for Robotic Manipulator Based on Intelligent Techniques Ms.Neha Kapoor Prof. Jyoti Ohri EED, NIT Kurukshetra Stability, Reliability Analysis and Control Design for Time Delay Systems Mr. RamaKoteswara Rao Alla Prof. J. S. Lather EED, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. G. L. Pahuja EED, NIT Kurukshetra Title of the Thesis Name of Scholar Su perviso r I Co- Su pervisor ELECTRON ICS & COMM UNICATION ENGI N EERI NG D E PARTM E NT Synthesis and Characterization of i Undoped/Doped TiO2 Films for the Measurement of Carbon Monoxide Gas Concentration Mr. Mukesh Kumar Prol A. K. Gupta (Retd.) ECE, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. Dinesh Kumar Electronic Science Deptt., KUK Simulation Studies on Spacer Engineered FinFETs for low Power Analog/RF and Digitar Applications Mr. Gaurav Saini Dr. Sudhanshu Choudhary, ECE Department, NIT Kurukshetra ll;l Study of Spectrum Sensing Techniques for Cognitive Radio Systems Mr. Pankaj Verma Prof. Brahmjit Singh Electronics & Commu nication Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra lmprovements in Spectrum Sensing and Throughput for a Cognitive Radio System Mr. Gaurav Verma Prof. O. P Sahu Electronics & Communication Engineering, N lT Kurukshetra Title of the Thesis Name of Scholar Superviso r I Co- Supervisor M ECHANICAT ENG IN EERING DEPARTMENT Green Supply Chain Management in Dairy and Agro Industry: A framework for Sustainable Development Mr.Vijay Kumar Prof. Pankaj Chandna MED, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. Arvind Bhardwaj NIT Jalandhar, Punjab ThermoHydraulic Performance Enhancement of Solar Air Heater Using Multiple Ardhaped Roughness Elements with Gaps on Absorber Plate Mr. Navneet Kumar Pandey Prof. V. K. Bajpai Mechanical Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Parabolic trough Collector - Analytical and Experimental Study Considering Various Designs and Operating Parameters Mr. Devander Kumar Prof. Sudhir Kumar (Retd.) Mechanical Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Numerical Studies on the Effects of Pressurized Ambient Condition, Accelerated Motion ano Artificial Surface Features in EHL Contacts I vr.rrrirai Kumar Dr. Punit Kumar Mechanical Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra CIVI L ENG I N EERI NG DE PARTTIi ET{T Seismic Response of Braced and Shear Wall R.C.C. Framed Buildings. Mr. Ravinder Singh Malik Prof. V. K. Sehgal Civil Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Prof. S. K. Madan Civil Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Study of Properties of Cementitious Com positions Incorporating Nano-Silica Mr. Rahul Pratap Singh Prof. Pratibha Aggarwal Civil Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra COMPUTER ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT lmproved Software Remodularization through I Mr. Amarjeet Prof. Jitender Kr. Chhabra Search-Based Techniques I I Computer Engg., NIT Kurukshetra Design and Development of Defensive Mr. Shashank Gupta Dr. B. B. Gupta Solutions for Web Applications against Cross - Computer Engineering Site Scripting (XSS )Attacks NtT Kurukshetra PHYSICS DEPARruENT Mr. Prem Datt Acoustic Emission Analysis for Damage Response of Snow and Characterization of Acoustical Properties Prof. Ashavani Kumar Physics, NIT Kurukshetra Dr. J.C. Kapil, Scientist-E SASE, DRDO, Chandigarh EN INNOVIITION CTUB Following projects are under progress in this club :- 1. Design and Fabrication of an efficientVivaldiAntenna for Ultra-Wide Band (UWB) Applications Pratul Nijhawan, Arvind Kumarand Yashash Chandra Dwivedi 2. Automatic Number Plate Recognition System Bhupesh Gaugna, Disha Rewri,Vaishali Garg, Swati Goel, Arun Teja 3. Autonomous PoolCleaning Robot Mansi Agrawal, Vaishnavi Rane, N.Lalitha Gayathri, Vaishnavi Adurti 4. Search& RescueWOLAircraft Anuj Gupta, Nishant Kumarand UmangAgarwal 5. VEGAMVariableVehicleSpeed Limiter T.Lokesh, A.R.Phani KumaL K.Deva Kishore TEf,M TNNOTTATTON I Tfi,CIILIT C O ORDINATORS Research & Gonsultancy Dr. Anind Kumar Electronics & Communication Engineering Ih. Anune Gil Physics lh. Aulhesh Yadav Mechanical Engineering Dr. Manlosh Biswas Computer Engineering Dr. Saulabh Ghanana Electrical Engineering Issue Editor : Dr. Anurag Gaur DEf,N' RESEIRCH & CONSIILTANCY NATIONII, INST TUTE OF TECENOIJOGY KIIRIIKSHETR.tr- I 36 I I 9 @aryana) Tel: +9 l-0 I 7 44-233221 | Email: brahmjit@nitkt<r.ac.in