URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/letter-no.-248-Advise-all-the-senior-students-for-anti-ragging.pdf
Title: letter-no.-248-Advise-all-the-senior-students-for-anti-ragging.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 301
--------------------------------------------------
No. Dean(SW)/24/248 OFFICE OF THE DEAN (STUDENTS' WELFARE) NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA punishment. This is to advise all the senior students that they are strictly forbidden from approaching/linteracting with the first year students without permission of the concerned authority. These restrictions are imposed in the B.Tech. first year hostels as a precaution against ragging. Further, the senior students are not allowed to approach first year students in one or the other pretext such as induction/collecting money for T-Shirts etc. ATTENTION SENIOR STUDENTS Copy to: Any violation Would be considered an act of ragging which can invite severe Further., all senior students are strictly warned to refrain from ragging of first vear students. Anyone found guilty of ragging and/or abetting ragging, actively or passively or being part of conspiracy to promote ragging, will have to face any one or more of the following punishments: 1. FJ.R with police. 2. Suspension/expulsion from the hostel. 3. Debarring from campus placement. 5 4. Rustication from the Institute. Cancellation of admission. Please stay away from ragging and help the administration to create a ragging free atmosphere in the campus. The seniors will have an opportunity to interact with the first year students aS per past practice. 1. All Notice Boards (Institute & Hostels) Dated: 31.07.2024 2. Assistant Registrar to Director for the kind information of the Director. 3. Al HoDs/ School Coordinators with the request to get the notification displayed on notice boards. 5. Prof l/c (Security & Surveillance) Dean (Students' Welfare) 4. Chief Warden (Boys &Girls) with the request to get the notification displayed in all Hostels' notice boards. 7. Chairman (Proctorial Board). 6. Faculty l/c (Website) with the request to upload the information on the institute website. 8. Sr. Secretary to Registrar for the kind information of the Registrar. t st d to