URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/EOI-cum-RFP-NIT-Kurukshetra_sd.pdf
Title: EOI-cum-RFP-NIT-Kurukshetra_sd.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 14403
--------------------------------------------------
(Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 1 of 43 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA (An Institute of National Importance, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) Advt. No: 75/2024 INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) CUM REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra invites EOI cum RFP in sealed envelopes in two bids system from Central Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) eligible as per GFR, 2017 u/s 133(3) for PMC for the construction of buildings i.e, academic block, hostel block, residential block, director’s residence, vertical extension of hostels and academic buildings and other external development work of NIT Kurukshetra at Kurukshetra (Haryana) to be undertaken under EPC mode. The PMC Agency shall be selected /Appointed based on Quality-cum-cost based selection system (QCBS) as per GFR 2017 and as defined in this document: IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS 1) ‘Owner’ /Institute : Director, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Dist.- Kurukshetra (Haryana) 2) Estimated Cost (Indicative of the complete Project) : Rs.300 Crores (Approx) (This estimated cost is for guidance only. No claim shall be entertained for variation in this cost by Owner) 3) Completion Time : 42 Months (6 months for planning and 36 months for execution) excluding DLP of 24 months 4) Cost of Tender Documents. (In Form of DD/NEFT/RTGS Payable to Director, NIT Kurukshetra payable at Kurukshetra) : Rs. 25,000/- (Non-Refundable) 5) Earnest Money Deposit (in the form of DD/NEFT/RTGS/Bank Guarantee in favor of Director, NIT Kurukshetra payable at Kurukshetra) : Rs 15 Lakhs (Fifteen Lacs only) TIME SCHEDULE FOR VARIOUS TENDER RELATED EVENTS Date of Publishing 05/09/2024 Bid Document Download Start Date 09/09/2024 Clarification Start Date 10/09/2024 Bid Submission Start Date 13/09/2024, 9:00AM Date of Pre-Bid Meeting 23/09/2024, 11:00AM Bid Submission End Date 03/10/2024, 3:00 PM Technical Bid Opening Date 07/10/2024 Presentation of Concept Note To be intimated later Date of Opening of Financial Bid To be intimated later Address for Communication The Registrar, NIT Kurukshetra, Kurukshetra- 136119, E-mail: r e g i s t r a r @ n i t k k r . a c . i n (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 2 of 43 RFP - Project Management Consultancy (PMC) NIT Kurukshetra I PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INFORMATION 1) ‘Owner’ / Institute reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals without assigning any reason thereof. 2) Bid for PMC, the RFP supported by prescribed annexure shall be submitted in a sealed envelope duly super-scribed with the name of work, name & phone nos. of the bidder and the due date of opening. Those desirous of submitting the bid by post may do so subject to the condition that NIT Kurukshetra shall not be responsible for postal delay and bids received after 15:00 hrs. on due date will be treated as delayed and will not be entertained. 3) Bidders are advised to keep visiting the NIT Kurukshetra website from time to time (till the deadline for bid submission) for any updates in respect of the RFP document notice, if any. Failure to do so shall not absolve the bidder of his liabilities to submit the RFP document complete in all respect including updates thereof, if any. An incomplete bid may be liable for rejection. 4) All events will be as per the timeline given in the schedule. All queries by the bidders shall be submitted to the Registrar NIT Kurukshetra in the given due date. 5) Authorized Signatory: Any Regular Officer of the bidding organization who is authorized by the competent authority Viz C.M.D/ head of organization. The original signed copy of authorization letter must be attached with the bid. 6) The bidding process shall consist of Two Bid System. The bid must be submitted in two parts comprising:  Part-I: Technical Bid & Part-II: Financial/Commercial/Price Bid (all have same meaning).  The Part-I (Technical bid) should contain the EMD, Technical details of the organization required as per the RFP document, financial information along with other desired information/certificate as per the Annexures of this proposal document.  The Part-II (Financial Bid) shall only contain the price offered in the Bid format provided in the document.  Both the Bids should be properly placed in two separate sealed envelopes and marked accordingly (must super-scribed “Technical Bid” or “Financial Bid” on the top of each respective envelope) for their proper identification. These should again be sealed in a third bigger envelope super-scribing, “RFP for providing PMC for the construction of NIT Kurukshetra campus at Kurukeshtra District”.  The Part-I (Technical Bid) will be opened on the date of the tender opening and the Part-II (Financial Bid) after evaluation of Part-I. The Part-II (Financial Bid) of only technically qualified bidders shall be opened, as decided by the Technical Evaluation Committee. The decision of the Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) shall be final and binding on all the bidders. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 3 of 43 EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) cum REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) FOR PROVIDING COMPREHENSIVE PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY (PMC) SERVICES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF VARIOUS BUILDINGS & EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT OF NIT KURUKSHETRA CAMPUS AT KURUKESHTRA DISTRICT Information to Bidders (ITB) 1) National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra is willing to engage the Project Management Consultant (PMC) from amongst Central Public Sector Undertakings (CPSUs) eligible as per GFR,2017 u/s 133 (3) for Construction of various Buildings etc. & External Development of NIT Kurukshetra at Kurukeshtra, Kurukshetra under EPC Mode. The Institute will select the PMC agency on the basis of Quality- cum-cost based selection system (QCBS) as per GFR 2017. The estimated cost of the proposed Institute Campus including administrative and academic buildings, residential buildings, student facilities, campus development, etc. as given in the document. 2) DEFINITIONS: Unless context or consistency demands, the following terms shall have the meaning assigned to them as given below. However, in case of any doubt arises the decision of Institute shall be final and binding on all the parties. 2.1) ‘‘Owner’/ Institute’ shall mean National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra and shall include their legal representative, successor and permitted assigns. 2.2) ‘PMC’ shall means the agency (PSU/Central Govt. Organization) engaged by the Institute as the Project Management Consultant and shall be fully responsible for the Construction, development and all other works assigned by the Institute. 2.3) '’Authorized Representative' shall mean the representative of Project Management Consultant (PMC). 2.4) “Projects” shall mean Construction & Development of various Buildings etc. & External Development of NIT Kurukshetra at Kurukeshtra, Kurukshetra. 2.5) “Services” shall mean the Comprehensive Design & Engineering, Project Management Consultancy services to be rendered by the PMC as mentioned in this document and assigned by the Institute from time to time to make the campus fully functional. 2.6) “Contractor” means the contractor or contractors or suppliers or agencies employed by the Executing Agency (PMC) for the works or any connected works/Services, including the Executing Agency itself in case any work is done directly by the Executing Agency. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 4 of 43 2.7) “Completion” means when the Building(s), amenities, utilities, etc. are complete in all respects along with associated services i.e. ready to occupy and are actually handed over to the ‘Owner’. 2.8) “CTE” means Chief Technical Examiner. 2.9) “CVC” means Central Vigilance Commission, Government of India. 2.10) “CAG” means Comptroller and Auditor General, Government of India. 2.11) “EPC” means Engineering, procurement and Construction mode. 2.12) “NITK” means National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra. 2.13) “HEFA” means Higher Education Financing Agency. 2.14) “MoE” means Ministry of Education. 2.15) “Applicant/Bidder/Tenderer” can be used interchangeably and shall have the same meaning. Similarly, Tender/Bid also shall have same meaning. 2.16) “A/A & E/S” means Administrative approval and Expenditure Sanctioned. 3) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: 3.1) As per clause 7.1 of this document. 4) THE BROAD SCOPE OF THE WORKS / PROJECT DESCRIPTION SHALL BE: 4.1) The Execution of the project shall be undertaken on behalf of NIT Kurukshetra on EPC Mode 4.2) Construction & Development of campus which includes construction of various buildings, external development, electric work, associated services etc. at NIT Kurukshetra, Kurukeshtra in compliance with all applicable laws/rules/guidelines issued by Govt. of India. 4.3) Execution and Supervision of all the project related activities such as civil, architectural, Structural, Plumbing, Electrical etc. under EPC mode where Engineering, Procurement, and Construction would be fully contracted. 4.4) Obtaining statutory approvals, local body approvals etc. wherever applicable. 4.5) The project shall comply with GRIHA-III or above 4.6) All buildings infrastructure shall be planned and designed in phases to ensure that the campus is occupiable by NIT Kurukshetra as per the need determined during project proposal stage. The phasing plan shall be prepared during the time of contract/MoU. 4.7) Design shall comply with local architecture, applicable bye laws and NBC-2016 4.8) Obtaining completion / occupancy certificate including fire, safety etc., if applicable. 4.9) Handing over the completed works/project with quality and compliance of all rules and regulations to NIT Kurukshetra. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 5 of 43 4.10) Maintenance of building during the defect liability period of 24 months from the date of handover as agreed by Owner for fully functional structure with all the components after the work has been successfully handed and taken by NIT Kurukshetra and as per the Milestone prepared and agreed mutually by PMC and the Owner. 4.11) Appointment of EPC contractor: PMC shall appoint EPC contractor based on design proposal finalized by Design Consultant through design finalization stage as per GOI norms/GFR norms. 4.12) PMC shall appoint design consultant for the preparation of proposal good for bidding of EPC contractor. The broad scope of Design consultant shall include: a) Architectural design of buildings and master plan. b) Structural design and drawings etc; c) Mechanical, Electrical & Plumbing (MEP) services and drawings. d) Low voltage systems (CCTV/LAN etc) facilities and drawings. e) Landscaping and horticultural development least affecting the natural flora and fauna of the site and drawings. f) Clearance of the site in all respect. g) Any other requirement for completion of project 4.13) The design consultant shall have appropriate qualification and experience consistent with the project . 4.14) PMC shall involve One/Two representatives of NIT Kurukshetra in selection of Design Consultant along with other experts 4.15) The proposal of design consultant presented at the time of selection of Design Consultant shall be tentative and NIT Kurukshetra is at its liberty to accept/change or ask for alternative design during design finalization stages 4.16) PMC shall ensure that Design consultant completes the design and drawing proposal within 3 months from the date of A/A & E/S communicated by Owner, through following design finalization stages: i) Concept design alternatives ii) Final concept iii) detailed design with model/3D walkthrough iv) Design shall be cost effective and efficient in fund utilization v) Design consultant shall interact with NIT Kurukshetra team to get detailed understanding of the requirements and has to follow the directions issues. vi) The responsibilities of Design Consultant shall be consistent with the responsibility of architect as given in Council of Architecture (COA) handbook of professional practices. Vii) Design consultant shall be responsible for design coordination and technical support during EPC contract stage within the finalized design. 4.17) The EPC contract shall be concluded by the PMC in consultation of Owner. However, (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 6 of 43 the required financial/rate analysis documents and credentials of the contractor(s) shall be shared by PMC to NIT Kurukshetra before commencement of the work. 5) BID CONDITIONS: The estimated cost of the project is as mentioned and duration is 42 Months (6 months for planning & tendering process and 36 months for execution). The Bidders shall provide their services as PMC for a period of 42 Months or till the completion of the project whichever is later. However, the time period for completion of individual building would be decided by the PMC in consultation with Owner as per urgency/requirement. 5.1) Owner reserves to itself the authority to reject any or all of the bids received and change the scope of the work without assigning any reason. The Owner also reserves the right to itself to terminate the bidding process at any stage without assigning any reason. 5.2) The offer, in which any of the prescribed conditions is not fulfilled or where the bidder puts any condition including that of conditional rebate, shall be liable to be summarily rejected. 5.3) Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with the bid is strictly prohibited and the bid submitted by the bidder who resorts to canvassing in any form would be liable to rejection. 5.4) The offer shall remain open for acceptance for a period of 180 days from the last date of Bid submission. 5.5) Bidder must ensure before submitting the bid that each and every page of the bid documents is signed by the authorized officer of the organization. The bid document shall form a part of the contract agreement. The successful bidder on acceptance of his bid by the Accepting Authority, and issue of letter of intent/ award shall sign the contract agreement / MOU as required by the Owner. 5.6) To obtain first-hand information on the assignment and on the local conditions, bidders have to visit the actual site of the project. Bidders must be informed themselves of local conditions and take these into account while preparing their bids. 6) SUBMISSION OF BID: Bids to be submitted on the date and time mentioned in this document. The Agency (PMC) charges all-inclusive but excluding GST for Providing Comprehensive Design Engineering and Project Management Consultancy (PMC) Services shall be quoted in terms of Fee both in figure and in words duly signed by the Authorized Signatory to be indicated in the prescribed format provided. GST as applicable shall be paid as per GoI Norms. The owner shall reimburse/ pay all expenditure related to obtaining statutory clearances of the project as per actual including registration charges (if any) with concerned authority. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 7 of 43 Bids without EMD and Tender Fee shall be rejected summarily. The bank details for RTGS/NEFT are as under: Account Name: ___________, NIT Kurukshetra Account Number: __________________________ IFSC: ______________________ Branch: ________________________ The EMD shall be refunded to the unsuccessful bidders after the finalization of the bid and the EMD of the successful bidder shall be refunded after the signing of the MoU or contract. 7) EVALUATION CRITERIA: Combined Quality cum Cost Based Selection (QCBS) as detailed in the tender. 7.1) Minimum Eligibility Criteria: The Agencies who fulfill the following minimum eligibility requirements shall be eligible to bid. Ineligible bids shall be rejected outrightly and no further action/technical consideration shall be given to such bids: i) Any Public Sector undertaking set up by the Central Govt. to carry out Civil and Electrical works as per GFR clause 133(3) can participate in the bid. Other Central PSUs notified by the Ministry of Urban Development for such purpose can participate in the bid. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to be submitted along with the tender as documentary evidence for this purpose. ii) The bids received as a joint venture or consortium are not eligible for participation. Only sole bidders are allowed to participate in the bid. iii) The bidder must be a Government company registered under the companies act 2013/1956 or a corporation setup by an act of parliament or a department of the central Government. The certificate of incorporation or the gazette notification of the incorporation of the body must be enclosed with the bid. iv) Should have satisfactorily completed as PMC/Design, Development and Construction agency for works as mentioned below completed within (07) Seven years ending previous day of last date of submission of tenders. (copies of work order and completion certificates shall be attached) a. Three similar works each costing not less than 40% of the estimated cost of the project Or b. Two similar works each costing not less than 60% of the estimated cost of the project Or c. One similar work costing not less than 80% of the estimated cost of the (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 8 of 43 project. Similar works means experience in “Providing Comprehensive Project Management Consultancy (PMC) Services for Educational, medical or research Institutes comprising of Administrative, Academic, hostels and residential buildings, etc.” under EPC Mode. d. Central Govt. Organization/ PSU should have experience as Architectural and Project Management Consultant for Construction of a completed building project with minimum value of Rs. 500 crores Approx. during the last ten years. e. Cumulative average annual financial turn over during the immediate last 3 consecutive financial years should be at least 100 percent of the estimated cost of proposed project. f. The agency should not have suffered any financial losses during last 3 Financial Years. g. Agencies that are debarred or blacklisted by any Govt. Departments are not eligible to participate in the tender. A notarized Certificate is to be submitted along with the bid by the bidders to the effect that they are not debarred or blacklisted by any Govt. Department. In case. if it is found at later stage that the bidder is a blacklisted company declared by any Govt. Department then the works shall be withdrawn, and EMD/bid security will be forfeited. h. The bidders fulfilling the minimum eligibility criteria will be notified of the date and venue for the presentation to be presented before the Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) constituted by the Institute. The qualified firms will cover the following aspects in their presentations. The presentation by each firm should be of 30-45 minutes duration. The Presentation must include following points:  Organization structure  key performance indicators of PMC for EPC projects.  Reporting and recording systems.  Quality management plan of past similar projects.  Strength & weakness of the organization in terms of PMC.  Design and execution plan of qualifying projects  Methodology, Understanding of Project, etc.  Typical project schedule of past project of similar nature (preferably qualifying projects)  Conceptual plan/Proof of concept  Manpower support for supervision and quality control 7.2) Evaluation of Technical Bid The duly constituted Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) shall evaluate the (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 9 of 43 Technical Proposals on the basis of their responsiveness to the Terms of Reference and by applying the evaluation criteria. The bid shall be evaluated as per the following criteria: S. No. Criterion Evaluation Criteria A. Technical Manpower (Presence of in-house professionally qualified staff on the payroll of the PSUs in indicated categories) Max. 15 Marks (i) Civil Engineers (Minimum 5 years of experience) Max. 10 Marks Civil Engineers (Min. Qualification - B. Tech from CFTIs/ AICTE approved Institutions) i) 201 and Above: 10 marks ii) Between 101 to 200 Engineers: 07 marks iii) Between 50 to 100 Engineers: 5 marks (ii) Electrical Engineers (Minimum 5 years of experience) Max. 3 marks Electrical Engineer (Min. Qualification- B. Tech from CFTIs/ AICTE approved Institutions) (i) 25 and Above: 3marks (ii) Between 5 to 24 Engineers: 1 marks (iii) Architect Max. 2 marks Architect (Minimum Qualification – B.Arch from CFTIs/ AICTE approved Institutions) i) 05 and above with minimum 05 years of experience: 2 marks ii) 05 and above with minimum 03 years of experience: 1 marks B Experience of development of Master plan and campus survey One project for an area of at least 30 Acre. Max. 5 Marks C Past Experience of the PSU Max.35 marks i Experience of similar nature of works during last Seven years: Projects successfully completed Max.10 marks i) 05 Marks (50% marks) for minimum eligibility criteria (as per clause 7.1) ii) 10 Marks (100% marks) for twice or more than the minimum eligibility criteria or more. ii Navratna and above / Schedule A-Mini Ratna / Schedule B- Mini Ratna Max. 05 Marks i) 05 Marks for (Navratna & above) ii) 03 Marks for (Schedule A Mini Ratna,) iii) 02 Marks for (Schedule B Mini Ratna) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 10 of 43 iii No. of years in the relevant operational area (Construction and other allied works) Max. 05 Marks. i) 05 Marks for more than 40 years ii) 03 Marks for experience between 30 to 40 years iii) 02 Marks for experience between 10 up to 30 years iv MOU Rating of the PSUs Max. 05 marks i) Excellent: 05 Marks ii) Very Good: 04 Marks MOU Rating for the Seven Consecutive years issued by DPE, GoI as per the formula Given below: "MoU Rating marking to be considered for the last 7 consecutive years as follows: (a) Excellent - 1 points (b) Very Good - 0.8 points (c) Good - 0.6 points The marks shall be awarded based on the following formula: Obtained marks = (Total points for 07 years) x (5/7) iii) Good: 03 Marks v Experience in Green Building Max. 05 marks i) 05 Marks for at least One projects successfully completed with 5- star GRIHA Rating/Platinum LEED rating ii) 03 Marks for single project with 4-Star GRIHA rating/Gold LEED Rating iii) 02 Marks for one project successfully completed with 3- star GRIHA rating/Silver LEED Rating vi Bidder should have completed at least one assignment for Educational, medical or research Institutes comprising of Administrative, Academic, hostels and residential buildings, etc in last Five years Max. 05 marks i) 05 Marks for at least One projects successfully completed having Built-up area more than 1.5 Lakhs sqm. ii) 03 Marks for at least One projects successfully completed having Built-up area more than 1.0 Lakhs sqm iii) 01 Marks for at least One projects successfully completed having Built-up area more than 0.5 Lakhs sqm D Financial Capability Max. 15 marks (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 11 of 43 i) Average Annual Financial turnover in last three financial Years. Max.10 marks i) 05 Marks (60% marks) for minimum eligibility criteria. ii) 10 Marks (100% marks) for twice the minimum eligibility criteria or more. ii) Average Annual Profit before tax (PBT) in last three financial years Max. 3 marks i) Between Rs. 50 – Rs. 100 Cr: 1 marks ii) Above Rs. 100 Cr: 3 marks iii) Net worth as on 31 March of previous Financial Year Max. 2 marks i) Above Rs. 1500 Cr: 2 marks ii) Between Rs. 500 – Rs. 1500 Cr: 1 marks E Methodology, Understanding of Project and presentation on Concept Design and execution plan (based on the presentation made before TEC) Max. 30 Marks Total 100 Marks a) The Technical Evaluation shall be carried out based on the signed documents submitted by the bidder for technical bid. b) The evaluated Bid will be given a Technical Score (TS). The minimum technical score required to qualify technical evaluation (Stage – I) is 70%. A bid will be considered unsuitable and will be rejected at this stage if it fails to achieve the minimum technical score. OWNER will notify bidders who fail to score the minimum technical score and the Financial Bids of such failed bidders will not be opened. c) Owner will notify the bidders who secure the minimum qualifying technical score, indicating the date and time set for opening of the Financial Bids. The notification will be displayed on the Institute website and will be sent by the electronic mail on the email-id provided by the bidder. 7.3) Opening and Evaluation of Financial Bid The Financial Bids will be opened only of those bidders who secure 70% marks and above in technical bid (Stage–I) and each is termed as Technically Qualified Bidder (TQB). The cost indicated in the Financial Bid shall be deemed as final and reflecting the total cost of services and should be stated in percentage (%) only on the actual project cost or estimated preliminary project cost, whichever is lower. The financial bid is excluding GST as applicable. 7.4) Award of contract: Selection of Bidder for Award of Work: The final selection of the bidder for the award of work will be based on the scores secured in the Technical Bid (Stage-I) and the price quoted in the Financial Bid (Stage-II) as detailed below: (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 12 of 43 i) 70 % weightage will be considered for Technical Score (TS) obtained in the Technical bid (stage-I). ii) 30 % weightage will be considered for the price quoted by the bidder in the financial bid, this will be termed as Financial Score (FS). Financial score of the proposals will be determined using the following formula: FS = 100 x (FL/F) Where, “FS” is the financial score of an applicant (bidder), “FL” is the lowest Financial Proposal among all TQBs and “F” is the financial proposal of the particular applicant (bidder). iii) For the purpose of calculation of Composite Score (CS) for each bidder, the weightage shall be 70 % for the Technical Score (TS) and 30% for Financial Score (FS) of the respective applicants. The Composite Score shall be calculated using the following formula: CS = 0.70 x TS + 0.30 x FS. The TQBs will be ranked accordingly to their Composite Scores and will be listed in the order of merit as H1, H2 and H3 and so on. The top scorer bidder (H1) shall be eligible for the award of the work as PMC. In case, if the H1 bidder declines the contract/fails to take up the work, TEC may consider the other TQBs in order of merit. iv) Even though a bidder may satisfy the above requirements, the bidder would be liable to disqualification if it has: a) Made misleading or false representation or deliberately suppressing the information in the forms, statements and enclosures required in the pre- qualification document. b) Record of poor performance such as abandoning work, not properly completing the contract, or financial failures / weaknesses etc. v) The decision of the TEC shall be final and binding on all the bidders in all respect. vi) The decision of the Institute authorities shall be final and binding on all in all respect. 7.5) Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) The MOU between PMC and Owner will be executed with mutually agreed terms and conditions. This document/relevant terms and condition will be part of MoU as decided by the Institute/Owner. However, the minimum requirements of GFR 2017 and other related GOI directions for such project shall be complied with. 7.6) PERFORMANCE SECURITY: The selected PMC shall furnish within 10 days of the date of issue of Letter of Intent (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 13 of 43 (LOI), an unconditional Bank Guarantee. The Bank Guarantee shall be issued by any nationalized bank for an amount equivalent to 3% of the PMC Fee as Performance guarantee. The Performance guarantee shall remain valid for a period till the completion of Project. The format of the Bank guarantee is at Annexure (X) 8) TERMS & CONDITIONS OF ENGAGEMENT: 8.1) Responsibilities of PMC A) Subsequent to signing of the MoU, PMC shall take possession of encumbrances free site from the ‘Owner’ and shall appoint a competent Architectural and Engineering (A&E) Consultant commensurate with the size and nature of work after following due process. B) Approval of Final design through design finalization stage in consultation with Design Consultant and Detailed Project Report (DPR)/ Preliminary Estimate (PE) i) Preliminary Project Report (PPR) shall be prepared by (PMC) based on the functional and space requirement as intimated by the “OWNER” and shall be submitted to “OWNER” for its approval ii) Based on the approved PPR, “PMC” shall prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR/ Preliminary Estimates (PE) consistent with their norms and standards, containing milestones and commensurate activities to be accomplished against each Milestones and Baseline Program in the form of CPM network depicting clearly Date of start and completion of the work. And submit it to the OWNER along with all the relevant input information, documents and Drawings etc. for approval of the OWNER. PMC shall use C.P.W.D analysis of rates (DSR) for framing the DPR/PE. NON DSR items shall be incorporated in the detailed estimates only when these are not either readily available in the DSR. Detailed reasons and justifications for including Non-DSR items shall accord approval from the OWNER. OWNER shall accord approval to the DPR/PE containing milestone and baseline program in the form of CPM network and issue administrative approval (A/A) and Expenditure Sanction (E/S) after the submission of the same by PMC. The preliminary Estimate as well as actual expenditure/cost shall not exceed the approved project cost. C) Release of Funds, Payment of Bills. a) After the agreement of the charge by PMC for carrying out the work, OWNER shall release initial Deposit of 10 % of the approved preliminary estimate amount to PMC after issuance of Administrative Approval and financial sanction and signing of the MOU along with the milestone and baseline programme between PMC and the OWNER. b) OWNER shall release additional up to 10 % of award amount to PMC after the (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 14 of 43 award of construction contract on the basis of special request made by PMC in this regard along with proper reasons and justifications acceptable to the OWNER for additional requirement of fund over and above already released initial deposit of 10 % of approved PE amount in terms of above clause. c) After the Initial and Additional Deposit as per clause “a” and “b” above and subsequent release of Fund shall be in the form of recoupment of the expenditure made by ‘PMC’ on the work as per monthly expenditure statements which shall be submitted in Monthly Expenditure Statement (MES) in a form similar to CPWD Form – 65 (Account of Deposit works). While submitting MES, and placing demand for release of fund in the form of recoupment of the monthly expenditure already incurred on the work, ‘PMC’ will also submit a comprehensive report on the progress of physical completion of various activities and Milestones vis-a-vis earlier planned activities/ Milestones for the overall completion of the specific work mutually decided between ‘OWNER’ & ‘PMC’ for enabling ‘“OWNER”’ to keep an effective check on utilization of fund as well as physical progress of the work. d) The fund subsequent to Initial Deposits shall be released by ‘OWNER’ to ‘PMC’ after submission of request by ‘PMC’ along with all documents as described in Clause – “C” above. As per the monitoring of physical and financial progress indicators, ‘OWNER’ will take necessary steps for recoupment of the monthly expenditure incurred on the basis of the Fund Utilization Certificate. e) ‘PMC’ shall obtain approval of the ‘OWNER’ about any excess expenditure likely to be incurred over and above the approved Projected Cost and also about possibility of time overruns, as soon as it comes to the knowledge along with reasons and justifications thereof for necessary approvals from ‘OWNER’ before continuing/ incurring the extra/ additional expenditure. However, have to comply with EPC norms. f) The ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for certifying and making payment of Bills of the Contractors/ Agencies engaged by them and make available Final Statement of Accounts in Standard Format to ‘OWNER’ & also provide copies of Final Bills for all Contract Packages and other expenditure incurred related to Project Construction after the Completion of the Work. In addition, should ‘OWNER’ ask for any other details from ‘PMC’ regarding Utilization of Fund at any stage, Detailed Estimates, Technical Sanctions, Award of Works, Running Bills etc., the same shall be provided by ‘PMC’ readily. g) The ‘OWNER’ shall settle compensation/ levies, if so required to be paid based on recommendation by ‘PMC’ related to the Project works, under Workmen’s Compensation Act or any other Act or Law of the Central or the State Government. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 15 of 43 h) PMC Shall also indemnify NIT Kurukshetra on infringement of any patent/copyright/intellectual property/royalty issue and also for any disputes due to any violation of labor laws. D) Execution of Work a) The ‘PMC’ shall obtain necessary Statutory Approvals/ Permission/ Clearances/ Certificates from the concerned Local Bodies & Statutory Authorities like District Authorities, Municipal Corporation, Panchayati Raj Institutions, Town Planning Board, Electricity Board/ Fire Department, State/ Central Pollution Control Boards, State Environmental Authorities, Forrest and Wild-life authorities etc (for e.g. removal of trees, re-locating utilities; conversion of railway level crossings, laying of railway sidings needed by the work; rehabilitation and resettlement of persons affected by the work; traffic control; mining of earth and stone; interfering protected monuments; blasting permission, environmental/ forest/ wild-life clearances; and shifting of religious shrines etc.) to start the work have been obtained. b) Works shall not be awarded by ‘PMC’ to contractors till all statutory approvals/ certificates/ permissions required for taking up the work, are in place. c) ‘“OWNER”’ shall make the work site available free from encumbrances to ‘PMC’. The PMC shall be responsible for providing all auxiliary services. However, the Institute may help wherever necessary, if desired. d) ‘PMC’ shall permit ‘“OWNER”’ to inspect or monitor the works, either itself or through Third party as and when it desires for assessing actual progress and quality of construction and any other aspects. e) ‘“OWNER”’ shall provide security clearance and ensure free access for ‘PMC’ staff/ Employees and their workers working at Work site in case these are required. ‘PMC’ shall provide necessary support in this process. f) ‘PMC’ shall ensure adequate availability of men & material by their contractors. g) ‘PMC’ shall ensure that the Contractor(s) implement required Health, Safety & Environmental (HSE) practices at the Construction Sites and they also comply with all statutory obligations related to workmen deployed at the Construction Site. ‘PMC’ will act as Principal ‘Owner’ in respect of all Statutory Obligations related to workmen deployed at the site in execution of the work. h) The ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for arranging all utilities required for construction like Drawing of Water, obtaining electricity connection, putting up Labour Camps/ Huts inside the available space for facilitating construction by contractors engaged by ‘PMC’. The ‘PMC’ shall provide necessary support in obtaining permission, if any, of Local Bodies in this regard. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 16 of 43 i) As soon as the work is allocated, ‘PMC’ shall prepare and submit to ‘“OWNER”’ an Integrated Programme Chart for the execution of work showing clearly all activities from the start of work to completion with details of manpower and other input information required for the fulfilment of the timelines given therein. ‘PMC’ will intimate ‘“OWNER”’, Project Team, both on - site and off-site, starting from Chief Engineer to Junior Engineer associated with execution of the work. The Programme Chart should inter- alia include descriptive note explaining sequence of the various activities, CPM Network Milestones etc. This will form Base Line Programme and the subsequent progress of the work shall be reviewed with reference to this during periodic Progress Review Meeting preferably monthly. Any increase in time period from the Base Line Value shall be construed as Time Overrun. j) ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for providing Physical Progress Reports to “OWNER” in the form of CPM (Critical Path Method) Network on monthly basis for reviewing of the progress of the work vis - a vis Base Line Programme and taking all necessary remedial actions, after considering “OWNER”s observations made in respect of quality and progress of the work during the monthly/ periodic Project Review Meetings. To ensure timely completion of work as per the approved time-schedule/ milestones and within the approved Cost. k) ‘PMC’ shall also be responsible for providing to ‘OWNER Financial Progress Reports of the project and up to date Expenditure incurred on the work on monthly basis along with Certificate of Utilization of Fund against Fund earlier released to ‘PMC’ by “OWNER”. l) ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for total Project Management including day-to- day supervision of works, maintenance of all project records and executing the works as per prescribed guidelines, Works Manual, Codes, Books of Specifications etc. and also in accordance with relevant and extant provisions of General Financial Rules (GFR) 2017. m) PMC shall be sole responsible for the quality of work, compliance of directions issued by the Institute. Additional cost for reconstruction, modification of any work not adhering to the quality as necessary or as directed by the Institute/Third-Party Quality Inspection (TPQI) Committee shall be borne by the PMC. E) Project Management, Cost and Time Control a) ‘PMC’ shall implement a system of ‘Project Team Concept’ with dedicated group of Engineers under single and unified command for implementation of projects from concept to completion and call composite tenders to reduce the number of packages for better management. ‘PMC’ shall be obliged to adopt all the above-mentioned measures to successful completion of the works within approved Cost and time period. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 17 of 43 b) ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for managing the Project from concept to commissioning effectively and efficiently to ensure desired/ proportionate pace of progress and completion of work is achieved progressively vis-à-vis approved Plans & Specifications and in Terms and Conditions of the MOUs and mutually agreed milestones and timelines and approved cost, taking with due diligence all required pro-active remedial measures including provision of stringent and elaborate enforceable Clauses to this effect and also making time as the essence of contract in the Bid and Contract Documents. ‘PMC’ shall provide for clauses in the contract and established procedure to recover liquidated damages from their contractors/ agencies. The liquidated damages recovered from the contractors for delay, if any, shall be credited to ‘“OWNER”’ in the project accounts. c) The approved Initial Project Cost & Timeline should not exceed during execution of the Project except for reasons like increase in cost index during construction period, revised specifications or extra work over approved estimate carried out at the request of ‘“OWNER”’ etc. In case of either increase in earlier approved cost or timeline, detailed reasons and justifications, based on verifiable facts and figures, shall have to be provided by ‘PMC’ along with comprehensive proposals for revision in earlier approved Project Cost & Timeline, which shall be intensively examined by ‘“OWNER”’ in consultation with ‘PMC’ before approval is accorded to their proposals. No additional expenditure over and above the earlier approved Project Cost shall be incurred by ‘PMC’ without prior approval of ‘“OWNER”’. Upward Revisions in either Cost or Timeline should be an exception rather than a rule and for achieving this objective, all required efforts shall be made by ‘PMC’. d) At any time, it appears to “OWNER” that the actual progress of the work does not confirm to the approved programme referred above and intimated to ‘PMC’ by “OWNER”, detailed reasons and justifications for such delays shall have to be provided by ‘PMC’, which shall be examined by “OWNER” to re-Schedule the Programme, if any. Progress Review Meetings preferably monthly shall be held between ‘PMC’ and “OWNER” for reviewing the progress of works based on Baseline Programme/ Milestones etc. and also for resolving co-ordination issues, if any including fixing priority of some works, facilities and services for their early completion and handing over to ‘“OWNER”’ for putting item to use for intended purpose. A&E Consultants may also participate. ‘PMC’ will also designate a nodal officer in respect of specific work for coordinating with ‘“OWNER”’ and A & E Consultant. Such designated nodal officer shall be suitably empowered and authorized to take decisions in work related issues so that delays are minimized for achieving timely completion of work. F) Completion and Handing-over of Completed Work and Facilities (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 18 of 43 a) PMC’ shall obtain work Completion/ Occupancy Certificates & Clearances for completed Work and Facilities before handing over the same to ‘“OWNER”’ for putting them to functional use. ‘“OWNER”’ shall provide all assistance in this process. b) ‘PMC’ shall hand over the project to ‘“OWNER”’ or its Authorized Representative completed Work including all Services and Facilities constructed in accordance with the Approved Plans, Specifications fulfilling all techno-functional requirements agreed with ‘“OWNER”’ along with Inventory, As built - Drawings, Maintenance Manual/ Standard Operating Procedure ( SOP) for Equipment’s and Plants, all clearances /Certificates from Statutory Authorities, Local Bodies etc. c) On completion of the work, a Project Completion Report (PCR) shall be submitted by ‘PMC’ duly bringing out the Final Project Completion Cost, Total Time period taken to complete the work and also completed Project Components as against the approved Cost, Time and Project Components. The Project Completion report (PCR) shall be submitted along with Final Project Accounts including return of unspent balance amount to ‘“OWNER”’ within one month of settlement of final bills of the contractors/ other agencies deployed on the work by ‘PMC’. (G) Additional responsibilities of PMC a) PMC shall prepare preliminary cost estimates based on architectural concept /other services drawings & specifications and approved by the OWNER. Preliminary cost estimates shall be prepared based on CPWD plinth area rates / DSR (as applicable) enhanced by the cost index of the area and market rate analysis for items which are not included in CPWD, PAR, for financial sanction / approval of the Owner. b) PMC shall prepare tender documents comprising the technical specification, BOQ, general terms and conditions, special conditions etc. and decide on inviting tenders on engineering procurement construction (EPC) mode. For efficient Project execution, if required, PMC shall decide on sub packaging of the entire work. PMC shall invite open tender based on prevalent / established prequalification criteria. PMC shall award the work within sanctioned cost (excluding agency charges) to the technically and financially competent bidder. c) If there is an increase in the tendered cost vis-a-vis sanctioned cost (excluding agency charges) then PMC shall put up a proposal to the ‘Owner’ for sanction of the revised cost with supporting documents and technical justification. However, the same is subjected to the approval of the appropriate authorities of the Institute. d) PMC shall make all the statutory payments to the government or any other statutory body or bodies relating to the Project from the Project Fund. The amount thus paid towards statutory expenditure shall be reimbursed by the (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 19 of 43 Owner as per actual. e) PMC shall unless otherwise specified be fully responsible for procurement of all materials through contractors/agencies for the Construction activity and be liable for compliance of statutory laws/rules/regulations of the appropriate authorities. f) PMC shall be wholly responsible for any observations and/or comments and, if any, defects pointed out by C.T.E/C.V.C/C.A.G./ Statutory Authorities/local bodies/municipal corporation etc. pertaining to work under intimation to owner in the planning & procedures of execution of the Project. PMC shall provide all work-related information promptly to ‘OWNER’ for replying to parliament questions, queries from various constitutional and statutory authorities g) PMC shall have the absolute authority to grant extension of time, cancel or determine cancellation of contract, either in full or parts, if the Contractor fails to perform / complete the work, due to inferior workmanship etc. PMC shall get the balance work completed at the risk and cost of the Contractor / subcontractor. The risk and cost tender shall be concluded with due diligence to minimize the risk and cost liabilities. h) Any defects discovered and brought to the notice of the PMC during the period aforesaid shall be rectified by the Contractor appointed by the PMC. PMC shall ensure that in the event of the failure on the part of the Contractor, the same may without prejudice to any other rights available to it in law, be rectified by the PMC at cost and expenses of Contractor. i) PMC shall submit the schedule for completion of work as per approved preliminary drawings and preliminary estimate to Owner for approval. The PMC after award of work will submit Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) and get approved from Owner j) In the intervening period of submission of financial bid and opening of financial bid the PMC shall prepare market rate analysis of the expected bids in complete confidence. The same shall be submitted to the ‘Owner’ for information. k) The bids received from EPC contractor (s) shall be analysed, justified with respect to the market rate analysis with reasons for variations and presented to the ‘Owner’ as a due diligence report with specific recommendations of the award of tender including retendering if bids received are unreasonably high. l) The PMC shall invite the bids for the EPC contractor strictly In compliance with the CVC and GFR guidelines on open tender to ensure wide participation and solicit of adequate number of bids. If the number of bidders qualified are less than 3 before opening of financial bids, the PMC shall intimate the OWNER of the same and consider retendering at least (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 20 of 43 once to ensure wider participation. m) The qualifying project (s) of the EPC contractor shall be presented in the technical qualification document to assess a suitability of the bidder. The ‘Owner’ shall be at the liberty to get the satisfaction report from the owner of such qualifying projects through PMC if necessary. The qualifying project submitted should also include the detailed time and cost overrun and litigation if any. n) Quality shall be the sole responsibility of PMC. PMC shall maintain all record of QA/QC with respect to various items as per specifications and practices. And shall be responsible for providing the comprehensive report on timely basis to the owner. o) PMC shall satisfy itself for the adequacy of the quality compliance as well as the safety measures on the projects. PMC shall present all such documents to independent QA/QC agency appointed by the ‘Owner’. p) The PMC shall get the execution of the work done in accordance with the quality manual (ISO 9001) which may be verified by ‘Owner’ as and when required. q) PMC shall periodically assess itself with regard to the laboratory facilities of various onsite laboratories tests including calibrations. r) PMC shall ensure phasing of the project in consultation with owner. s) In case of any claim or difficulties experienced by EPC contractor which may eventually precipitate as disputes shall be immediately resolved without accruing any liabilities on the institute whatsoever. t) In case of any such claims leading to liabilities on the institute, the institute/ ‘Owner’ shall be informed immediately with necessary recommendation and avoid decision of the ‘Owner’. If the interim period in anticipation of the decision of the ‘Owner’ PMC shall take all necessary safeguard to limit the extent of liabilities as much as possible. u) The PMC shall appoint a design consultant for architectural, structural, MEP and such other services as necessary for the project. v) The qualification of the design consultant shall be consistent with the nature and value of work. w) As a part of technical presentation by the design consultant, the detailed presentation of the qualifying bidder shall be placed before the TEC (Technical Evaluation Committee) x) The bidding design consultant has also to give presentation of conceptual understanding of project and tentative design approach. y) The PMC shall prepare the technical requirement of the project and detailed scope of work along with deliverables of the services prior to invite bids for (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 21 of 43 appointment/engagement of the design consultant. z) Considering the nature of terrain and culture of Kurukshetra, the design shall be in line with the architectural identity suited to Kurukshetra. aa) Design consultant shall demonstrate the experience of having the designed building in similar regions with constraints like excessive rainfall, cold conditions, winter heating needs and minimum disturbance to the natural topography, flora and fauna and without interfering the natural drainage. It shall be incumbent on the PMC/ Design consultant shall require to survey area beyond the site to assess the implications on the buildings and sites., bb) For executing contract on EPC mode, PMC shall ensure the following important provisions to be considered while framing estimate, preparing Notice Inviting Tender (NIT), etc.: i) Enabling estimate can be submitted as per Owner requirement for carrying out pre-construction activities wherever required for conceptual planning purpose to assess the precise requirement of the scope of work. ii) The Design Consultant appointed by the PMC shall prepare the concept design, preliminary drawings and specifications based on detailed requirement of the work in consultation with the Owner before preparation of Preliminary Estimate. iii) Detailed Geotechnical Investigation/ Geophysical/Geological etc. of the proposed site and layout shall be the responsibility of the Executing Agency (PMC). iv) The responsibility of investigations, designing, planning, procurement, construction, safety & security, quality, risk of engineering etc. lies with the PMC and the same will be incorporated in the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) by the PMC. v) Mode of measurements for payment purpose will be decided by the Owner on recommendation of the PMC. vi) PMC shall follow the general guidelines of EPC contracts as specified in SOP (Annexure - XI) enclosed. vi) No additional item/amount shall be charged without prior approval of the owner. viii) Phasing plan shall be prepared by PMC as per the directions of the owner. ix) The Design Consultant or any other consultant required and engaged by the PMC for successfully completion of the project shall be appointed by the PMC under intimation to NIT Kurukshetra. The fee for such consultancies shall be borne by the (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 22 of 43 PMC from their agency Fees. x) The Executing Agency (PMC) shall appoint a design consultant whose responsibilities include architectural planning, designing, structural design, vetting, design of internal utilities and communication system, firefighting, water supply, detailed Geotechnical Investigation, Green Rated Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA 3 star Minimum) etc. till the completion of the project. xi) The PMC shall ensure sufficient and qualified manpower at site to oversee the effective execution of the project by the contractor. An adequate number of qualified engineers from CFTIs/AICTE approved institutions are to be deputed on the site and office of the PMC. xii) PMC shall be responsible for successful execution of performance specifications like leakage/ seepage free, structural defect free and full functioning of various fittings/ fixtures etc commensurate to prestigious project of National Importance. PMC shall ensure drafting of these specifications and their supervision of successful execution accordingly. Penalties shall be recovered to the full cost of repair/ replacement of the same in case of violation xiii) The PMC shall maintain a fully functional office at the site during the entire period of execution till handing over of the project. The minimal documents to be maintained at the site office for inspection shall be as per Annexure-IX. xiv) The PMC shall ensure Project Management on BIM Building Information Management) platform level 3.0 or higher /M.S Projects/Primavera and will ensure training for smooth completion of the project. The PMC shall ensure availability of weekly reports on deployment of resources and progress. xv) The PMC must comply with the CVC Circular issued from time to time regarding the applicability of the Integrity Pact in its contract with the contractor. The same is to be done as per extant guidelines in this regard and complied in full. 8.2) Responsibilities of Owner: i) The Owner shall provide to PMC all Project related requirements/ detailed scope of works for planning/designing pertaining to the Project. ii) Owner shall demarcate and handover the site, free from all encumbrances or charges to PMC. iii) Owner shall release the funds/payments comprised in the Project Funds promptly and as and when required by PMC to ensure that the progress of work is not hampered due to non-availability of funds. However, the release of the fund shall be subjected to the progress and milestone/work completed. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 23 of 43 iv) Owner shall nominate authorized nodal officer/ to inspect and check the ‘construction work’ from time to time to examine that the construction works are being carried out as per drawings & specifications as provided in the approved cost estimate. If during the inspection, any defects or variation without the written request of the Owner are found, then the same shall be rectified by the PMC through its deployed contractors on his own cost. v) Owner must ensure to communicate any change in Scope, Extra items to be incorporated in the awarded work well in time. Further, no separate approval for deviations in quantities in the awarded work to the Contractor will be obtained by PMC from the Owner where the deviations are within the prescribed limits as per Contract and /or within the approved sanctioned cost (including agency charges) of the ‘Owner’. However, the PMC has to comply with all the specification given by the Owner from time-to-time along with maintaining the norms, standards, bye laws applicable to the project. 9) PAYMENT TERMS & RELEASE OF FUNDS 9.1) PMC shall execute the Project on “Deposit work basis” on behalf of Owner and shall be paid the actual cost of Project plus the quoted Agency fees towards all Services provided for planning, designing, Project Management, Supervision Services and all connected miscellaneous items on the estimated cost/actual cost whichever is lower. GST shall be reimbursed on actual. 9.2) The expression ‘actual cost of Project’ shall include the following: i) All the final payments made to the contractor(s), sub-contractor(s), vendors / supplier(s), TPQM agency etc. as agreed upon in the tender for the construction of all the buildings, services, related facilities etc. ii) All the cost incurred to obtain the GRIHA rating certification as communicated and approved by the OWNER. iii) All costs of materials acquired for the Project and used on the work, either directly or through the contractor(s) including storage charges, carriage and any other incidental charges connected with such materials but excluding the material not incorporated or not handed over to the Owner. iv) All cost of labour and manpower deployed on the Project works by the contractor on its own or through labour contractors or PMC for execution of the works. v) Actual cost of site survey, soil testing charges, laboratory charges for testing of any material, manufactured or built items including the cost of cartage of samples to and from the laboratory. vi) The cost towards vetting of design/drawings from any reputed institute like IITs, NITs for consulting any matter concerning the Project. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 24 of 43 vii) The cost towards watch & ward staff, construction of site office, other field requirements etc. viii) All monetary liabilities of the PMC towards the contractors/ sub-contractor, suppliers and other agencies to the extent these falls within the definition of actual cost as may be left outstanding at the time of payment of final bill provided they have been accepted by the PMC as balance payment against final bill of these agencies. ix) All additional costs as payable to contractors /vendors/labors etc on account of risk & cost action against contractor with due approval of the Owner. x) All liabilities arising out of any court decree or arbitration award and /or any additional costs transpiring due to the direction of any court/tribunal /statutory body and/or any other legal costs including but not limited to the cost of hiring advocates, getting legal opinions, filing of pleadings etc. for the purpose of initiating on behalf of, or defending, itself or the ‘Owner’ in any suit or arbitration, in respect of any dispute arising out of the Project works done or to be done and/or freeing the site of all encumbrances and/or charges, subject to the prior approval of the Owner. xi) This sub-clause only addresses disputes/arbitrations/suits with any or all of the contractors or any other person(s) body/authority. Nothing in this sub- clause shall be construed to cover any disputes/arbitrations/suits between the ‘Owner’ and the PMC, in which case, each party shall bear its own costs. xii) The cost of the project shall include all direct and indirect taxes and also any other statutory payments on account of cess etc. to the State/Central Government. 9.3) The actual cost of work shall not include: i) Cost of land; and ii) Cost paid by the ‘Owner’ to government or any other statutory body or bodies for getting approvals for the Project etc. iii) The PMC charges and GST thereon. 9.4) All tax liabilities including Applicable Taxes on payments to contractors & PMC and any further tax liability arising out of statutory amendments in laws, government notifications etc. shall be paid by ‘Owner’ to PMC. 9.5) In case of non-receipt of the payment, any extra cost incurred by PMC on operation of GST law applicable from time to time including but not limited of reversal of Input tax credit and interest thereon, such extra cost shall have to be reimbursed to PMC by the ‘Owner’. 9.6) The payments by the ‘Owner’ shall be made by transfer of funds in ESCROW/Project account opened by the PMC for this purpose through demand draft/cheque/ (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 25 of 43 RTGS/NEFT. 9.7) The ‘Owner’ shall give initial deposit of 10% (Ten percent only) advance of the estimated cost on signing of the Agreement to PMC. This initial deposit will be adjusted against the expenditure as per actual. 9.8) The PMC shall give to the ‘Owner’, their Monthly Expenditure Statement (MES) for recoupment preferably showing description of work done, quantity & value of services rendered and Applicable Tax along with their expenditure claim (including agency charges) duly certified by a representative of PMC on the Project, for reimbursement of expenditure incurred. The ‘Owner’ shall release the payment as per Ministry guidelines based on the invoices/ reimbursement bill by the PMC. 9.9) On completion of work, the accounts of the works shall be closed by the PMC and a final statement shall be submitted for settlement along with refund of excess deposit received, if any, audited by a Chartered Accountant. All government rules & regulations pertaining to Applicable Taxes shall be applicable and binding on both ‘Owner’ & PMC. 10) LIQUIDATED DAMAGES 10.1) PMC shall be required to complete the construction of Project within the period stipulated. In case of delay, which may occur due to the reasons beyond the control of PMC, PMC would intimate and obtain the approval of the ‘Owner’ with full details of extension in time limit for completion of the works and keeping the contract alive. 10.2) If the delay in completion is solely attributable to the PMC, the PMC shall be liable to pay as damages to “‘Owner’ " a sum calculated @ 0.25% (Zero-point Two Five percent) of the Agency Charges for the balance work for each month of delay, subject to a maximum of 5% (Five percent) of the Agency Charges of balance work. 10.3) In the event of delay due to Force Majeure causes resulting in the extension of the completion schedule for a length of time equal to the period of force majeure, PMC shall not be entitled for extra payment. 11) ARBITRATION Settlement of Disputes: Arbitration and settlement of disputes shall be done through the applicable Govt. of India policy applicable for Central Government Organisations. i) The parties shall use their best efforts amicably all disputes arising out of or in connection with the contract or the interpretation thereof. Director NIT Kurukshetra will be the chairman for settling the disputes amicably. If the same is not settled within Thirty days, the disputes settlement shall be done by the sole arbitrator to be appointed by the Director, NIT Kurukshetra who will decide the case in accordance with and as per the provision of the (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 26 of 43 Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and amendment from time to time therein or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force and proceedings of such arbitration shall be held in NIT Kurukshetra. In case of non-settlement, the concerned Courts in Kurukshetra shall have the jurisdiction over the dispute. ii) As dispute resolution mechanism for implementation of the provisions of this MoU, at the first instance the issues involved shall be brought before of ‘“OWNER”’ and concerned Chief Engineer of ‘PMC’ for their resolution. In case, however, disputes/ differences between the parties do not get resolved, the matter shall be escalated to higher level in ‘“OWNER”’, and ‘PMC’, who shall be above the level of CE in the respective organizations. They shall submit a comprehensive report and recommendation to ‘“OWNER”’ and ‘PMC’ for facilitating final decision in the matter. iii) ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for observing due diligence and adopting all possible measures at various stages of work execution to avoid Arbitration/ Litigation and other hindrances and the work is completed within optimum cost and time in hassle free environment. iv) ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for defending all Arbitration and Court Cases arising out of execution till the works and examining the Arbitration Award/ Decree of Court or Law/ liability by appropriate authority in ‘PMC’ and forwarding the same along with a comprehensive report on the circumstance leading to the Arbitration/ Court Cases and the reasons and justification as to why an appeal against such awards/ decree was not considered necessary briefing out inter- alia details of the award and clear cut recommendations. v) ‘PMC’ shall be responsible for redressing and complying with the observations of CTE/ CVC, Auditors, Statutory Authorities, Local Bodies, Municipal Corporation etc. pertaining to the work under intimation to ‘“OWNER”’. Providing all work-related information promptly to ‘“OWNER”’ for replying to Parliament Questions, queries from various Constitutional & Statutory Authorities. vi) The PMC shall be fully responsible to defend any suits or arbitration / Court cases and also any writ petitions/SLPs on behalf of 'Owner', as per the legal opinion of Ministry of Law & Justice for resolution of disputes, if cropped up between the PMC and its Contractor(s), for the above work during the construction stage of post completion of work, and any award/decree of work, shall be payable from the Project Fund / Owner with the approval of the competent authority on legal opinion of Ministry of Law & Justice. However, PMC shall not be paid any Agency Charges on such Arbitration award(s)/ court decree(s) in the favour of contractor(s). However, if the competent authority directs to challenge the award/decree in higher court, the PMC has to comply with the directions issued by the Institute. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 27 of 43 12) FORCE MAJEURE PMC shall not be considered in default if delay in completion of work occurs due to causes beyond its control including but not limited to cause beyond its control such as acts of God, natural calamities, civil wars, fire, strike, frost, floods, riots and acts of unsurpassed power. The PMC shall notify ‘OWNER’ in writing within ten days from the date of such occurrence. In the event of delay due to such causes, the completion schedule will be extended for a length of time equal to the period of force majeure. Suitable force majeure clause shall be incorporated in all the agreement entered into by the PMC with the contractors/ agencies. Sd/- Registrar I/C (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 28 of 43 (Annexure-I) LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL From: ……………………………………………. ……………………………………………. ……………………………………………. To, The Registrar, NIT Kurukshetra Kurukshetra – 136119 Sub: BID FOR PROVIDING COMPREHENSIVE PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY (PMC) SERVICES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION of BUILDINGS I.E, ACADEMIC BLOCK, HOSTEL BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL BLOCK, DIRECTOR’S RESIDENCE AND EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT OF NIT KURUKSHETRA AT KURUKSHETRA (HARYANA). Sir, Having examined the details given in bid document for the above work, I / We hereby submit the Bid. I/We hereby agree with the terms & conditions mentioned in the bid document. Yours faithfully, (Signature, Name and Designation of authorize person with complete address of PSU) (Please affix seal) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 29 of 43 DETAILS ABOUT BIDDING AGENCY (ANNEXURE - II) S. No. Particulars Details 1. Full name of the Bidder PSU (In capital letters) 2 Full address of the Bidder PSU/Registered Office 3 (a) Telephone No: (b) Email ID: 4 Names and details of the Authorized Signatory of the RFP/Bid (Name, Designation, Address, contact telephone Number, Mobile number, Email ID) 5 Has the bidder PSU been blacklisted by any organization at any time? If so, attach the details of the same. 6 PAN 7 TAN 8 Corporate Identification Number (CIN)/ Firm Registration Number (FRN) 9 Date of incorporation and number of years of experience in relevant area 10 Experience of award/ successful completion of project in similar terrain (project name, location, altitude and cost) 11 GST registration No. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 30 of 43 12 MOU Ratings for the past Seven years as per DPE, GoI 13 Green Building Experience 14 No. of full-time employees in the Organization Graduate Engineers Supporting Staff (Technical) 15 Financial strength of the Organization for the last 3 years. (Attach photocopies of audited balance sheets and CA certified calculation statements) Turnover (IN CRORE) 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 Average Annual Profit PBT (Before Tax) 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 Average Net Worth (as on 31st March 2024) Note: Attach attested copies of all the documents in support of above-mentioned points.  It is hereby certified that ------------------------------------ (The bidding PSU herein) has never been black-listed by Central/ State Governments/ PSUs.  It is hereby submitted that all the terms and conditions of this RFP are acceptable to the Bidder PSU. I hereby certify that the above-mentioned particulars are true and correct. If any fact/information is found incorrect/misleading, the bid shall be rejected, and the bidder is liable for legal action. (Signature of Authorized Signatory. Name of Authorized Signatory) (PSU Stamp) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 31 of 43 (Annexure III) DETAILS OF PERSONNEL S. No. Category No. of persons 1 Graduate Engineers (in the payroll of PSUs) a) Civil b) Electrical c) Architect 2 Supporting Staff (Technical) TOTAL (Signature of Authorized Signatory. Name of Authorized Signatory) (PSU Stamp) DETAILS OF WORKS / PROJECTS EXECUTED DURING LAST SEVEN YEARS (ANNEXURE - IV) S. No. Name of Owner Department Name of project Exact location On site of the project Approved cost of project (in lakhs) Date of commencement of project Timeline fixed For complete ion Actual date of Completion Final cost Of project (in lakhs) Is there any dispute/ Legal case/arbi- tration case pending in Respect of The project Remarks 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 (Signature of Authorized Signatory. Name of Authorized Signatory) (PSU Stamp) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 32 of 43 (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 33 of 43 (Annexure - V) DETAILS OF OFFICES IN KURUKSHETRA AND SURROUNDING AREA S. No. Location With full address and contact details No. of personnel Details of Office Space (In Sqft) Details of Infrastructure Graduate Engineer Supporting Staff (Technical) 1 2 (Signature of Authorized Signatory. Name of Authorized Signatory) (PSU Stamp) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 34 of 43 To, Director, EMD Bank Guarantee Format (To be Submitted in Stamp Paper of appropriate value) LETTER OF GUARANTEE (Annexure - VI) National Institute OF Technology Kurukshetra, Haryana 136119 IN ACCORDANCE WITH YOUR RPF No: ........................... dated.............for ............................ , M/s. ............................. (hereinafter called the “Bidder”) having its Registered Office at …........................, wish to participate in the said RFP for the ............................................... as an irrevocable Bank Guarantee against Earnest Money Deposit for an amount of Rs. …................... (Rupees...............................) valid up to .............. (180 days from bid submission end date), is required to be submitted by the bidder as a condition precedent for participating in the said bid, which amount is liable to be forfeited by the Institute on: (1) the withdrawal or revision of the offer by the bidder within the validity period, (2) Non-acceptance of the Letter of Intent by the Bidder when issued within the validity period, (3) failure to execute the contract as per contractual terms and condition with in the contractual delivery period and (4) on the happening of any contingencies mentioned in the bid documents. During the validity of this Bank Guarantee: We, ….......................(Bank name) having its registered Office at …....................… guarantee and undertake to pay immediately on first demand by …................................... the amount of Rs................... (Rupees ......................... ) without any reservation, protest, demur and recourse. Any such demand made by NIT Kurukshetra shall be conclusive and recourse. Any such demand made by the Institute shall be binding on the Bank irrespective of any dispute or difference raised by the Bidder. The Guarantee shall be irrevocable and shall remain valid up to 180 days from bid submission end date If any further extension is required, the same shall be extended to such required period on receiving instruction form the Bidder, on whose behalf the is Guarantee is issued. Notwithstanding anything contained herein : 1. Our liability under this Bank Guarantee shall not exceed Rs.................... (Rupees. ................... ) 2. This Bank Guarantee shall be valid up to .................................................. (date). 3. We are liable to pay the guaranteed amount or any part thereof under this Bank Guarantee Only and only if you serve upon us a written claim or before .............. (date). This Bank further agrees that the claims if any, against this Bank Guarantee shall be enforceable at our branch office at ........................................ situated at ............................. .. (Address of local branch). Yours truly, Signature and seal of the guarantor: Name of Bank: Address: Date: Instruction to Bank: Bank should note that on expiry of Bond Period, the Original Bond will not be returned to the Bank. Bank is requested to take appropriate necessary action on or after expiry of bond period. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 35 of 43 (Annexure - VII) AFFIDAVIT FOR NON-BLACKLISTING (To be Submitted in Stamp Paper of appropriate value) I/We undertake and confirm that I/We/ our firm/ company/ JV have not been barred or blacklisted by any of the central/ state government departments, Undertakings, Autonomous bodies, Institutions, Applicant, Societies, Enterprises and Companies. Further that, if such information comes to the notice of the institute I/we shall be debarred for bidding at NIT Kurukshetra in future forever. Also, if such information comes to the notice of institute on any day before start/or during the work, the Director, NIT Kurukshetra shall be free to cancel the agreement and to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest money deposit /performance guarantee. (Notarized affidavit to be furnished at the time of submission of bid NOTE: Affidavit to be furnished on a ‘Non-judicial’ stamp paper of appropriate value. signature of applicant(s) or an authorized officer of the firm with stamp Signature of Notary with Seal (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 36 of 43 FINANCIAL BID (Annexure - VIII) (On the Letter Head of the Bidder in Separate Envelope) From: ……………………………………………. ……………………………………………. ……………………………………………. To, The Registrar, NIT Kurukshetra Kurukshetra – 136119. Sub: FINANCIAL BID FOR PROVIDING COMPREHENSIVE PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY (PMC) SERVICES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS I.E, ACADEMIC BLOCK, HOSTEL BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL BLOCK, DIRECTOR’S RESIDENCE AND EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT OF NIT KURUKSHETRA AT KURUKSHETRA (HARYANA). Dear Sir, In response to bid document for the above work, we hereby quote our Fee in percentage (%) toward Project Management, Supervision, Services including Architectural Services for planning, designing, and Consultancy Services as per the scope defined in the tender documents as under: S. No. Particulars In Figure (%) In Words 1 Percentage of Fee (Agency Charges) the Project Management Consultancy (PMC) for Construction of Buildings i.e, academic block, hostel block, residential block, Director’s residence and external development of NIT Kurukshetra at Kurukshetra (Haryana). Note: 1) PMC shall execute the work on “EPC Mode” on behalf of Owner. 2) Fee (Agency Charges) is exclusive of GST which shall be payable on actual basis as applicable on submission of documentary evidence. 3) The PMC charges shall be payable on the actual project cost or estimated preliminary project cost, whichever is lower. (Signature of Authorized Signatory. Name of Authorized Signatory) (PSU Stamp) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 37 of 43 (ANNEXURE - IX) Minimal Documents to be maintained at the site office for inspection 1. Original contract with Design consultant / contractor. 2. Guarantee Bond etc. towards security for work, machinery/ mobilization advances etc. including extension of validity. 3. Insurance policies for work, materials equipment, men etc. including extension of validity. 4. Standard specifications as mentioned in the DPR. 5. Standard schedule of rates. 6. Drawings – Architectural, Structural and Services etc. (One copy of tender drawing & all latest good for construction drawing and a copy of drawings approved by statutory authorities. 7. All connected measurement book, level books field books and lead charts. 8. All running account bills with all connected statements / vouchers. 9. Statements showing details of check of measurements by superior officers-copies of order laying down such requirements. 10. Materials at site accounts/cement, steel, bitumen, paints, water proofing compound, pig lead, anti-termite chemical etc. 11. Stage Passing Register, Site order book, test records/ logbooks, working out Standard Deviation 12. Details of extra / substituted items and of deviated quantities being executed / considered for execution in the work along with analysis of rates. 13. Hindrance registers. 14. Office, correspondence files and inspection note, if any, issued by inspection officer. 15. Any other documents relevant to the works including the documents that are to be maintained as per CVC/CPWD/CTE the same needs to be maintained as per the format. 16. The Program Management Consultancy service provider shall maintain the following detailed documents. i. Daily Labour report employed by contractor and the activities of work. ii. Daily Safety report of the labour employed. iii. Project Review Meeting Minutes (both soft/Hard copy) iv. Receipt of Drawings v. Approval of Construction/Service materials vi. Site Hindrance vii. Statement of payment of wages to contract labour viii. Status of GRIHA compilation ix. Necessary approval records from statutory bodies. 17. Safety and Security of the Site. (Signature of Authorized Signatory. Name of Authorized Signatory) (PSU Stamp (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 38 of 43 (ANNEXURE - X) Format of Performance Bank Guarantee (To be Submitted in Stamp Paper of appropriate value) 1) In consideration of NIT Kurukshetra (hereinafter called “The Institute”) having agreed under the terms and conditions of this Letter of Agreement No. dated made between The Institute and (hereinafter called “the PMC service provider”) for the work of providing Program Management Consultancy services for the proposed Infrastructure works for a period of 42 months excluding the defect liability period of 24 months in the campus of NIT Kurukshetra. (hereinafter called “the Letter of Agreement”) having agreed to production of an irrevocable bank Guarantee for Rs. (Rupees only), as a guarantee from the PMC service provider for compliance of his obligations in accordance with the Terms and Conditions in the said agreement, we (Indicate the name of the Bank) (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) hereby undertake to pay to the Institute an amount not exceeding Rs. (Rupees only), on demand by the Institute. 2) We (Indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby undertake to pay the amounts due and payable under this guarantee without any demur, merely on a demand from the Institute stating that the amount claimed is required to meet the recoveries due or likely to be due from the said PMC service provider. Any such demand made on the bank shall be conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the Bank under this guarantee. But, our liability under this guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding Rs. (Rupees only). 3) We, the Bank, further undertake to pay to the Institute any money so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by the PMC service provider in any suit or proceeding pending before any Court or Tribunal relating thereto, our liability under this present being absolute and unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid discharge of our liability for payment there under and the PMC service provider shall have no claim against us for making such payment. We (Indicate the name of the Bank) further agree that the guarantee contained herein shall remain in full force and effect during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said Agreement and that it shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the Institute under or by virtue of the said Agreement have been fully paid and its claims satisfied or discharged or till Engineer-in-charge on behalf of the Institute certifies that the terms and conditions of the said Agreement have been fully and properly carried out by the said PMC service provider and accordingly discharges this guarantee. 4) We (Indicate the name of the Bank) furthermore agree with the Institute that the Institute shall have the fullest liberty without our consent and (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 39 of 43 without affecting in any manner our obligations hereunder to vary any of the terms and conditions of the said Agreement or to extend time of performance by the said PMC service provider from time to time or to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable by the Institute against the said PMC service provider and to forbear or enforce any of the terms and conditions relating to the said Agreement and we shall not be relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension being granted to the said PMC service provider or for any forbearance, act of omission on the part of the Institute or any indulgence by the Institute to the said PMC service provider or by any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have effect of so relieving us. 5) This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the constitution of the Bank or the PMC service provider. 6) We (Indicate the name of the Bank) lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee except with the previous consent of the Institute in writing. 7) This guarantee shall be valid up to unless extended on demand. Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, our liability against this guarantee is restricted to Rs. (Rupees only), and unless a claim in writing is lodged with us within six months of the date of expiry or the extended date of expiry of this guarantee, all our liabilities under this guarantee shall stand discharged. Signed and sealed dated the day of the Year 2024 for (Indicate the name of the Bank) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 40 of 43 (ANNEXURE - XI) STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE (SOP) Execution of Works on EPC Contract Basis 1) As per OM No 28012/11/2016 – W.3 dated 29th November 2016, of MoHUA‟s Works division and DG, CPWD‟s OM No DG/MAN/Misc./09 dated 9th May 2017, works of value more than Rs 100 crores or as notified from time to time are taken up under EPC (turnkey) mode. 2) As per the OM of NITI Aayog dated 5th September 2016, the model EPC bidding document published by the erstwhile Planning Commission suitably revisited or modified wherever required, to suit the requirements of the work, is adopted by the Owner. 3) After the receipt of requisition for the work, the owner is advised that they need not engage Design/Structural Consultants as the same would-be part of the EPC tender. The detailed planning is the responsibility of the contractor but the monitoring is done by the Engineer in Charge of PMC. For works undertaken in the EPC mode, sanction is obtained on the basis of Detailed or Preliminary Project Report as per feasibility and requirement and submitted as per understanding with the Owner. 4) The concept design, preliminary drawings and specifications based on detailed requirements of the work, in consultation with the Owner, is prepared before framing of the preliminary estimate (PE). The PMC concerned Architectural unit prepares the concept design, preliminary drawings and specifications based on detailed requirements of the work, in consultation with the Owner. 5) The Preliminary Estimate (PE) or any other document submitted for obtaining Administrative Approval and Expenditure Sanction defines accurately the scope of the work in terms of outcomes and performance parameters. 6) The following details are obtained to enable Preliminary Project Planning (PPP) (both Engineering and Architecture) for preparation of the PE: (i) Document showing ownership of land duly certified by the owner that the same would be in a position to be handed over to the contractor upon award of work free from all encumbrances and encroachments. (ii) Boundary of the plot(s) either constructed or demarcated and free from dispute. (iii) Topographical Map of the site. (iv) Geotechnical Data (which includes a study of foundation system of structures including private structures - in the vicinity and is as per codal provisions for the proposed structures). (v) Sources of the Bulk Services required as well as approved waste dumps for waste disposal. (vi) (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 41 of 43 Mandatory (e.g. fire, lift, EI, WS and SI etc.) as well as optional (HVAC, STP, RO, UPS, DG, SPV, Solar water heating etc.) services for each building/structure required by the Owner and found feasible. (vii) Statutory Approvals required. 7) The Preliminary Project Planning (PPP) is developed on the basis of above details and is submitted to the owner prior to the submission of the PE includes the following in respect of the buildings: (i) Scope of work (ii) Floor plans for building etc. and geometry for other works etc. (iii) Elevations/Sections/Perspectives (iv) Layout plan(s) (v) 3-D Block view (s) (vi) Area and/or Length statements as applicable (vii) Specifications in detail for each structure/building and its services to be included in the PE. 8) Soil investigation report is appended in the notice inviting tender (NIT) prepared by PMC for indicative purpose only. 9) The responsibility of investigations, designing, planning, procurement, construction, safety, quality, and risk of engineering lies with the contractor. 10) The PE submitted to the Owner includes, in addition to the PE, the following: - (i) Brief description of the Procurement Method (which also mentions the name of work). (ii) The obligations on the part of the Owner department, PMC, and the contractor with specified time limits for smooth execution of work. (iii) Architectural, Structural and MEP services specifications along with special conditions for execution of these jobs. (iv) In addition to the structures and their mandatory services (e.g. Internal Electrification, Fire Services, Lifts, Water Supply, Sewerage etc. where applicable) the list of optional services desired by the ‘Owner’. (v) Cost Estimate on simple Plinth Area or length basis where possible and detailed basis for others etc. including provision for cost of design development by contractor and risk devolving on the contractor. (vi) Provision is made separately for post completion operational cost (for 5 years or higher as agreed with the Owner) and maintenance cost (beyond free maintenance period and upto 5 years or higher as agreed with ‘Owner’. (vii) List of approved makes and models for components. (viii) Tentative time frame for completion, post completion operation and maintenance. (ix) List of three or more suitable agencies (proof check agencies) or parameters for the selection of the proof check agencies, tasked with checking and approving the design submitted by the contractor from engineering and architectural aspects. (x) Procedure and time frame for approval of implications of changes in scope of work requisitioned by the Owner as compared to that indicated in the sanctioned PE. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 42 of 43 11) For works undertaken by in the EPC mode, the Contractor takes the full responsibility for the design and execution. Only the scope, description of work, specifications, approved conceptual drawings for engineering and architectural planning, and schedule of quantities (if available) and as provided in the contract document, is kept on record and a No Objection Certificate is recorded by the Engineer in Charge of the PMC for the drawings prepared and submitted by the contractor after proof check, before the same is released for execution. 12) The contractor gets NOC for the design from the Engineer in Charge of the PMC for functional aspects and aesthetics and from the approved proof check agency for engineering and architectural considerations. The officers of the PMC are responsible for broad oversight of these aspects without being expected to examine the design. 13) For EPC contracts, the Engineer in Charge of the PMC ascertains the reasonableness of prices using analytical methods such as tendered amount for similar works whose tenders were accepted in the recent past, and any other method approved jointly by the PMC and Owner for ascertaining the reasonability of the tendered amount of the L1 bidder. The acceptance of financial bid is jointly approved by the PMC and Owner to approve the financial bids for the work of EPC contracts. 14) Submission of measurements, in case of EPC contracts, is only for record purpose. Payment of bills of the contractor is made on basis of stage-wise completion of work as per terms of the contract. (Seal & Signature of the Bidder) Page 43 of 43 UNDERTAKING (Annexure XII) To, The Director (To be Submitted in Stamp Paper of appropriate value) National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Kurukshetra – 136119. Subject: RFP CUM EOI FOR COMPREHENSIVE PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY (PMC) SERVICES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS I.E, ACADEMIC BLOCK, HOSTEL BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL BLOCK, DIRECTOR’S RESIDENCE AND EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT OF NIT KURUKSHETRA AT KURUKSHETRA (HARYANA). Dear Sir, I/We undertake that: (a) The EOI-cum-RFP can be cancelled by the Institute at any stage/time (including final stage) without assigning any reason and no claim of any kind shall be made by the agency/firm/organization. (b) If there is downscaling of the project cost in the final approved DPR, restricting the availability of funds, the PMC will undertake to uphold the same. The conditions described in the EoI cum RFP document herein under shall be agreed and complied with in all circumstances. Further, if there is any change in the statutory provisions as applicable in the project, the PMC shall comply with the same and shall not charge any extra amount. (c) The selected PMC shall accept the total project cost approved by the Ministry and for which the financial and administrative approval is granted by the Institute. It is certified that the above undertaking is given on behalf of the agency/firm/organization and shall be fully complied with. (Seal & Sign by Authorized Signatory)