URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ISEA-FUP_Brochure-2p.pdf
Title: ISEA-FUP_Brochure-2p.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 886
--------------------------------------------------
Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Phase-III Sponsored Faculty Updation Programme On Next-Gen Network Security: Cryptography, AI, and Blockchain Solutions for Emerging Threats (26-31, December 2024) Hybrid Mode Organized By Department of Computer Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India ABOUT ISEA Phase-III The Ministry of Electronics and Information Security (MeitY) has approved the project entitled ‘Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-III’ towards human resources development for safe, trusted, and secure cyberspace. It aims to create a robust training & certification mechanism for CISOs, Deputy CISOs, and Associate teams of CISOs/Aspirants, groom students towards products/solutions development through ideation & innovation activities, advance research & education in emerging/futuristic areas of Information Security, and build cyber-aware digital naagriks through mass awareness. ABOUT NIT KURUKSHETRA NIT Kurukshetra, formerly known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra was founded in 1963. It was conferred upon the NIT status, with Deemed University on June 26, 2002. The Institute offers several courses, in various disciplines of B.Tech., M.Tech., MBA, MCA, and Ph.D. with an annual intake of about 1500 students. The institute also provides excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Engineering, Science, and Technology. The institute has well-qualified and dedicated faculty along with supporting staff, laboratories, and other infrastructure. The infrastructure is geared to enable the institute to produce technical personnel of high quality. ABOUT T The Depa started in with the dynamic preparing well e laboratori Engineerin departme many qua ScienceDi the overa covers th managem of the stu OBJECTIV The Facu provide t practical modern d knowledge that are secure a advancem including detection firewall s design pr engaged i real-world to learn, a in classroo THE DEPARTMENT artment of Computer Engineering 1987 with the aim to equip students necessary skills to navigate the landscape of IT requirements for the future. The department is equipped with state-of-the-art ies of all major domains of Computer ng and Information Technology. The ent is equally active in research with ality publications each year in IEEE, rect, ACM, Springer, Wiley, etc. For ll development, the department also e other aspects of life like Health ent, moral and ethical development dents. VES OF THE PROGRAMME ulty Updation Programme aims to the faculty with theoretical and knowledge essential for securing igital infrastructures. It provides the e of various tools and techniques used to build robust, efficient, and applications. It covers the latest ments in cybersecurity technologies, cryptography, advanced threat and prevention mechanisms, security measures, secure network rinciples etc. The faculty will be in practical exercises that simulate d security challenges, enabling them apply and teach theoretical concepts om teaching and research. TENTATIVE CONTENTS ● Overview of Cryptography and Network Security: Fundamentals of cryptography, Network Security, Symmetric and Asymmetric Encryption, Threat Management strategies, and Security Issues in Emerging Technologies ● Security Threats and Defense Mechanisms: Types, Monitoring Techniques, Detection and Mitigation Mechanisms, IDS and IPS ● AI for Security: Overview of ML and DL, Applications of ML and DL in Cyber Security ● Secure Cyber Physical System (CPS): Security challenges in CPS, Threat Management and Mitigation in CPS, Cyber Security for Generative AI system ● Blockchain for Enhanced Security: Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technologies, Blockchain applications in Security, Smart Contracts and their security implications ● Lab Session: Building and deploying smart contracts on Ethereum using Remix IDE, Spam Detection, Malware Analysis and Detection, Phishing Detection, etc. ABOUT KURUKSHETRA Kurukshetra is popularly known for its historical and religious importance. Here, the battle of Mahabharata was fought, and Lord Krishna delivered the divine. Kurukshetra is very well connected by Rail, Delhi- Ambala section, by Road (NH1) and by Air (Delhi 160 km and Chandigarh 80 km). The NIT Kurukshetra campus is situated about 10 km from Pipli, Bus stand located on NH1 and about 4 km from Kurukshetra railway station. TARGET AUDIENCE ● Faculty in Academic Institution ● Industry professionals/ personnel/ scientists working in public/ private/ govt. organizations ● Research Scholars ● Freelancers with at least 1 year of academic/research experience. REGISTRATION FEE ● There is NO REGISTRATION FEE. ● Only limited seats (50) are available in this programme. ● Availability of funds will be taken into consideration while selecting candidates. ● No TA/DA will be provided to attend this course. ● Limited accommodations are available in the Institute Guest House/Hostel on a payment basis. Concerned Participants can request for booking in advance by contacting Dr Abhilasha Sharma, Course Coordinator through email. ● The Programme will happen in HYBRID MODE, physically at the Department of Computer Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra, and through Google Meet virtually. IMPORTANT DATES Last date for Registration: 15 December 2024. Confirmation to the participants (by email): 16 December 2024. Certificates will be provided to all the participants. HOW TO To apply f https://fo Alternativ Registrati ORGANIZ P Profe P Dr Ku Em Dr Shw Em Dr Abh Ema Dr S E APPLY for the course, register through: orms.gle/2TMBDLaToBxQfSDx7 vely, scan here for on: ZING COMMITTEE Chief Patron rof (Dr) B.V. Ramana Reddy Director, NIT Kurukshetra Patron Prof (Dr) A.K. Singh essor and Head, Department of CoE Convener Prof (Dr) Mayank Dave Professor, Department of CoE Course Coordinator(s) ldeep Kumar, Assistant Professor mail: kuldeepkumar@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-9461210063 weta Sharma, Assistant Professor mail: shweta.sharma@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-8626882647 ilasha Sharma, Assistant Professor ail: abhilasha.sharma@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-7347550992 Course Co-Coordinator Sweeti Sah, Assistant Professor Email: sweetisah3@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-9455147267