URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Notification.pdf
Title: Notification.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 1748
--------------------------------------------------
STORES SECTION NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA _ 136119 No, Stores/20241111 Dated 22.07.2024 NOTIFICATION The Ministry of Education, via its email dated 18.06.2024, communicated the instructions regarding Special Provisions for Scientific Ministries/Departments in GFRs 2017, issued vide OM No. F.20/4212024-PPD dated 20.05.2024 by the PPD, DoE, MoF. The above instructions have enhanced the limit of Direct Purchase to Rs. 1 lakh as per GFR-154 and the limit of purchase through the Local Purchase Committee to Rs. l0lakhs as per GFR-155. Accordingly, the matter was submitted before the authorities for consideration. The following were approved. 1. A Local Purchase Committee under GFR-155 shall be formed by the Competent Authority for the procurement of items not available on GeM. 2. As per GeM/GFR, Custom Bids for items not available on GeM for less than Rs. 5 lakhs are not allowed; the procurement may be done through the LPC. 3. For amounts above Rs. 5 lakhs and up to Rs. 10 lakhs, the procurement may be done through a Custom Bid on GeM. lf unsuccessful, the same may be done by constituting an LPC approved by the Competent Authority. For procurement through LPC under GFR-155, the above committee must survey the market to ascertain the reasonableness of rates, quality, and specifications, and identify the appropriate supplier. The committee shall either visit physically or invite quotations through registered post/speed post/courier/email by issuing a Notice lnviting Quotations. The Notice lnviting Quotations must be uploaded on the institute website for wide publicity. This issue is with the approval of the Competent Authority. Assistant Registrar (Stores) Copy to: - 1. All Deans. 2. Heads of all the Departments/Sections. 3. Assistant Registrar (Accounts)/Assistant Registrar (Audit) 4. Assistant Registrar to Director for kind information of the Director. 5. Private Secretary to Registrar for kind information of the Registrar. 6 lnstitute Website under Notification (Store Section) F.Np.33-3 /2032 -TS.III tlRAg{iFI{ /Government of lndia filrm riergq / Min istry of Erlucation ,nqair filfryr fumr/ Department of Higher Education tr*4l qtnJr- III /Technical Section-lll Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi Dated: lgth lune, Z0Z4 To (i) The Registrars of all 31 NITs; and (ii) The Registrar, IIEST Shibpur (W.8.) Subiect lmplementation of various instructions of Government of lndia in NlTs & IIEST, Shibpur - regarding. Madam/Sir, I am directed to convey the concurrence of the competent authority in the Ministry for extending the below mentioned Office Memorandum to the NlTs and IIEST, Shibpur fur further appropriate action as detail mentioned as under: 2. Further, separate communication of revision of rate of HR.l{ and Gratuity shall be issued separately after receiving concurrence from Ministry of Finance. Encl.: As above Under Secretary to Copy to: Integrated Finance Division, Ministry of Education, Department of Higher Education, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi. Yours faithfully, U',g- (Pawan Kumar) the GovL of lndla Sl No. Particulars Subiect 1, Ministry of Finaqce, Department of Expenditure vide their Office Memorandum No.F.20/4212024-PPD dated 20.a5.2024 Special provisions for Scientific Ministries/ Departments in General Financial Rules (GFRs), 20L7. L+i, . {* xi3gfl3il3iitri ' . S02, LokfaValengVql Khan Market, New Delhi Dated 20.052024. oFtlcE MEMORANDUM Subjecti Speclal'.provislons for Sclentlfic Mlnlstrles/ Departments in General '' Flnanclal Rules (GFRs), 2017. Attentlon is invited towards,thls Department's OMs of even numbers dated 01:09.2021 ,24,09.2021, 03J2;2021& 08.01.2024 vide wtricfr ambndments ln the GFRs were tanied out by thls Department based on the Inputs collated by NlTl . Aayog etc. from various . scientlfic Mlnlstrles/ Departments, that were lmpeding smooth functioning. Office of the Prihclpa!.Sclentific Advisor (PSA) haE now,sent more recornmendations for rela€tion in the GFRs for ease of procurement. 2. ln vlew of a[ above, ln-supersession of all above mentioned OMs, ri...;, arnendments in the GFRs arg now being,.made;-as lndicated ln para 3 of this OM. These amendments which witl be applicable only for to the followlng Mlnlstries/ ",: DepartmenE/ Organlzations of Govemmentof lndia: (l) Deparhrent of Sciance and Technology r (ii) Department of Biotechnology ' (iii) Department ofiScientlfic &''lndustrlal Resdarch (lv) Department of Atomic Energy (vi) Mlnlstry of Earffr Sciences (vlD Defence Research & Development OrganlzaUon ' (viii) lndian Council- of Agrlcultural Researcfr (lqAR), lncluding lts affltlated institutions and Unfuersities ; .l (ix) Dopartment of Health Research (DHR), includlng Indian Council of Medicdl Research; ' (x) El,:i:ffiH"'11,ff'.::fl, jfiIffitfr'LHH##f duate/ doctorar It is rslterated that .these amendments arc appllcable only f6r the above . MlnlsEles/ Dgpartments/ Organizhtlqns, 3. The exlsting Rules and he amended Rules of the GFRs ar€ as under Rule No. ExieUng Rule Amended GFR 133(3) As 'an alternatlue to, 133(2),_ a As an altemattue to 133(2), a .l'ir I !trtr Mlnlstry or Departrnent may-ami rcpairworks estimated.to cost abow Rupees thirty Laklr and origlnal works of any value to: Q^g.lV Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) set up by the Central or Stat6 Govemment to carry out civil or electrical works or (ii) to any other Central/ State Govemmdnt organlsatiod pSU qhich rnay be notified by the Mlnlstry of Urban Development (MoUD) for such purpose after evatuating iheir financial strength and. technical competence. For the award of rrrrork under thls sub-rule, the Ministrv/ Department shall ensure competition lpong such FSUs/ Organisafions. This. cornpetltlon shail. be essenflally gn tfrg lurnp sum seMce charges t6 be clalrned for execrrUon of work. ln excaptional @ses, for award of work under (i) and (ii) aborre on nomlnation basis the oondltions contalned ln Rule 194 would apply. The work under these circumstances shall also be awarded only on the basis of lump sum service charge. ruinlstry@ repairvrorks esflmated to cost above Rupees thirty Lakh and original works of any value to : (il any Pubtic seitor Undertaking (PSU) set up by the Centrat or State Govemment to carry out cMl or electricalworks or (ii) to any other Central/ 'State Gowrnment organisaUorV pSU qht...h may be notifled bythe Mlnistry of Urban Development (MoUD) for such purpose after evatualing their financlal strength and teChnical competenoe. For the award of work under this suhrule, the Mlnlstrv /Deparbnent shall "n=ure competition among such pSU# Oryanioaflons. Thls competflon shail be essentlally on the ,lump sum seMce charges to be clalmed fur execution of rrrrork ln exceptonal cases, br award of Uork under (i) and (ll) aborre, on nomlnation basis, the' condlflons contained in Rute ig4 woutd appty. The work under theee clrcumstanUs shall also be awarded only on the basls of lump sum serylm charge. A/otes.' (i) Scienffic Mlnlstries/ Departments/ organlzations mentioned in para 2 of this OM can assign repali Works estlmated to eost upto Rs.S crore on nomlnaflon basis even In nomat caaes only to the organlzatlons speclfled In thls sub:.ru]e of the GFRs. : (il) Thls speciat proMsion will be appllcable upto g1.OB,zOZ5. Thereafter rcvlernr will be maOe Oy Department of Expenditure to decid6 on further extenslon of these :lI!I t I ,1 I ,I I I i,i I I 4'., ai. t'. Rule No. Exlsting Rule Amended GFR 154 Furchase of Goods without quotation Purcfrase of gootls upto the value of Rs,25,000 (Rupees twentY ffve thousand) only on each oocasion rnay be made witho.ut invltlng quotations or blds on the basis of 'a certlflcate to be recordqd by the ,competent authority in the following format. "l am pemonally satlsfied that these goods purchased are of the requisite quality and speciflcatlon and have been purchased from a rellable supplierat a reasonable price' Purghase of Goods wlthout quotitlon Purctrase. of goods upto the rralue of Rs.= 1,00,000r- (Rupees one lakh) only on each ocsaslon maY bE made without invltlng quotafions or bids on the basis of q certificate to be recoded by the cgmpet6nt authortty in the following format. "1,, am personally satisfled,that theeE goods purchased are of the requlslte quallty and speffication and have been purctrased from a rcliable .suppller at a rcasonable Price.' Nofe; These pou/els can be used for prucurement of any item. Further, these powers are to be used onlY wh6n the required goods ar€ 'not, available on Govarnmant e' Marketplace (GeM) as stlpulated ln this Department OM No. 6112018' PPD dated 19.01.2018 1 55 Purchase of goods bY Purchase commlttee Purchase of goods costirig above Rs.25,000r- (Rupees twentY ffve thousand only) and uoto Rs.2,50,000/- (RuPees two lakh and fifty thousand only) on each occaslon may be made on the rclcommendatlons of a dulY oonstlMed Local Purchase Commtttee oonslsting of three memberc of an appropriate leve! as decided by the Head of the Deparfnenl The committee wlll survey the market b aecertaln the reasonableness of rate, quality and spedfications and identify the appropriate suppller. Bebre recommendlng placdment of the purdrase order, the members of the committee will jolnflY rccord a certlflcated as under. Purchase of goods by purchase commlttee. Purctrase of goods costng above Rs. 1,00,000r- (Rupees one laklh) and upto Rs. 10,00,0001- (RuPeeS ten lakh) on eadt occasion maY be made on the recommendations of a duly constituted Local Purchase Commlttee consistlng of three members of an appropriate leve! as decid6d by the Head of the Department. The committee YtJill Eurvey the market to ascertaln the reasonableness of rate; quali$ and spedficatlons and identifu the appropriate supPller. Before recommendlng placement of the purchase order, the rnembers of the commlttee will JointlY rccord a certlffcate as under. .t .{ 7 ; I I I ;, r..*.. ) Arnended GFR purchase comrnittee are jolnfiy and indivldually satisfied that the goods re@mmended for purchase are of the requieite specificaflon and quality, priced at the prcvailing market mte and the suppliei recommended is reliable and competent to supply the goods in questlon, and lt is not debaned by Department of Commerce oi Ministry/ Departmerrt conce med.' "Ceffiedffi PPD dated'19.01.201 "Certlfled that urc, members oflhe purchase commlttee are joinfly and indlvldually satisfied that ihe goods recommended for purchase are of the requisite specification and qualtty, priced : at the prevailing market rate and the ' supplier recommended is reliable ''and competent to supply the goods ln question, and it ls not debarred by Department of Cornmerce oi Ministry/ Department concemed.,' Nofe.'These powers are to be used only when the required goods are not available on Govemment e- Ittlarkgtplace (GeM) as stiputated in thls Deparfnent OM No. 6/i/2018- 4' lt is'atso,clarified that GFRs are not applicabls to the projects executed by State level lnstituflons or by the Prlvate universitievlnsfliutiond organisalons, even ir thev are tunded by rr,llnlsrl"s/ oeqllgenq# org-a;A#; rj;ffi"il;rl e... above. ln such cases, it is for the'Mintstry/ D"pffi;;y org"niation'ti-put In appropriate financial controls to achieve the intended purpose. 5. This issues with the approvalof Finance Secretary. Deputy Secretary,r..rr"M ret. N6. 246z7sid Emai[ anil.kumarl 4@nic.in To Secretaries/ FinancialAdvisers of all central Govemment Mlnlstries/ Depailments. I I -.}i<. .--.,1