URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Advt.No_.77.2024.pdf
Title: Advt. No.14.2022
Description: 
Word Count: 648
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.77/2024 Recruitment of Project fellow/Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/ personnel for DRDO funded project Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for a purely project based temporary position of one ‘Project fellow/Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/personnel’ under the DRDO funded project under CARS. The details of the project and the post of recruitment are given below: Title of project: Development of Infrared band absorbing materials Project Duration: For 20 months and co-terminus with the project. Upper age limit: 28 years; relaxation as per the GoI norms. Job Description: The ‘Project fellow/Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/personnel’ is required to assist in carrying out various activities under the project to complete the objectives and deliverables in time as per schedule. However, the candidate will be allowed to register for his/her Ph.D. degree in the Department if qualified. Principal Investigator: Dr. Y. Dwivedi, Department of Physics, NIT, Kurukshetra. Monthly Emoluments: Rs. 31,000 (Consolidated) for those who have qualified GATE or CSIR- UGC NET including Lectureship or qualified through National Examination of Government Departments and Agencies. Rs. 25,000 (Consolidated) for others who do not fall under the above category. Essential Qualification: M.Sc. (Physics) from a recognized Institute/ University with at least 55% marks or at least 6.0/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). Candidates having qualified GATE or CSIR/UGC-NET (LS) are preferred. Desirable: Preference will be given to students who possess experience in the fields of glass, ceramics, nanomaterials, spectroscopy etc. The ‘Project fellow/Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/ personnel’ may be allowed to register for Ph.D. program in Physics Deptt. of NIT Kurukshetra as per the Institute norms and if qualified. Application Procedure: Eligible and interested candidates should send the application along with the following by email or by post on or before 21st September, 2024: 1. Completely filled-in application form in the attached format. 2. Detailed CV with the particulars of prior research experience, publications, if any. 3. Copy of all degree certificates. A single pdf file with subject line “Application for Project fellow/JRF - Your Name” be addressed to yashjidwivedi@nitkkr.ac.in or send hard copy of the application to : Dr. Y. Dwivedi, Room No.A-205, Department Physics, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119, India. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the position they intend to apply. 2. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of interest on or before 21.09.2024 at email: yashjidwivedi@nitkkr.ac.in 3. Candidate should have good data analysis, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computer. 4. The position is for 20 months or co-terminus with the project. 5. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 6. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. 7. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 8. Appointment will be contractual in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions for similar cases. 9. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communications in this regard will be entertained. 10. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their applications. 11. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 12. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 13. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. Sd/- Registrar I/c