URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Online-STC_RAAM-2024_NIT-Kurukshetra.pdf
Title: Online-STC_RAAM-2024_NIT-Kurukshetra.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 718
--------------------------------------------------
National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra NIT Kurukshetra, formerly known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra was founded in 1963. It was conferred upon the NIT status, with Deemed University on June 26, 2002. The Institute offers several courses, in various disciplines of B.Tech., M.Tech., MBA and MCA and Ph.D. Institute also provides excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Engineering, Science, and Technology. The institute has well qualified and dedicated faculty along with supporting staff, laboratories and other infrastructure. About Mechanical Engineering Department Department of Mechanical Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra has been offering Under-graduate Program (B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering & Production and Industrial Engineering), Post-graduate Program in Production and Industrial Engineering, Design Engineering and Thermal Engineering. The course curriculum has been designed to be compatible with the existing and emerging needs of the industry. The autonomy of the Institute is a privilege to the department in terms of flexibility to modify and revise courses/syllabi at different time intervals to cater contemporary needs to the needs of the Industry. The department has established state-of-the-art facilities in various domains of mechanical and industrial engineering. Course Objectives The short-term course aims to cover wide range of elementary and advanced topics in additive Manufacturing (AM)/3D printing, would typically aim to provide participants with a comprehensive understanding of various aspects related to AM. The main objective is to give an exposure related to AM fundamentals, materials in AM, design for AM, advanced AM technologies, quality control and post-processing, applications across industries and future trends and challenges in AM. The course is designed for both beginners and experts, and will be focused to give an insight into field through discussion of necessary theoretical backgrounds. Patron Dr. B.V. Ramana Reddy, Director, NIT Kurukshetra Co-Patron Prof. Hari Singh HoD, MED, NIT Kurukshetra Coordinator Dr. Pankaj Sahlot, Assistant Prof. ME Department NIT Kurukshetra Mobile: +91-9727630054 Email: pankajsahlot@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Ravi Pratap Singh Assistant Prof. ME Department NIT Kurukshetra Mobile: +91-8318084834 Email: singhrp@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Vikas Kumar Assistant Prof. ME Department NIT Kurukshetra Mobile: +91-9536345391 Email: vkumar05@nitkkr.ac.in Organizing Committee All faculty and Staff of Mechanical Engineering Department, NIT Kurukshetra Online Short-Term Course on Recent Advances in Additive Manufacturing: Fundamental to Applications (RAAM-2024) November 13-17, 2024 (Five-Days) Organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India Resource Person Eminent speakers from IITs, NITs, CFTIs, and other reputed universities and industries will deliver the expert lectures. Course Highlights The course aims to address the following issues related to the recent advances in additive manufacturing field. ➢ Foundational concepts in additive manufacturing/3D printing. ➢ Recent advances in additive manufacturing/3D printing. ➢ Applications of AM in various fields. ➢ Advancements in research related to materials in AM, design for AM, advanced AM technologies, quality control and post- processing. ➢ Additive manufacturing in Industry 4.0. ➢ Challenges and opportunities in additive manufacturing. Who Should Attend? This Online Short-Term Course (E-STC) is open to the UG / PG students, PhD scholars, Faculty from relevant engineering disciplines, and Industry professionals. The programme will be conducted in online mode, and a e- certificate will be provided to all the participants who register and attend the programme (minimum 75% attendance is compulsory). Number of Participants Number of participants is limited for this Online STC. Application will be accepted on first-cum- first serve basis. Registration Fee Details The registration fee structure is as follows: Participant Registration Fee (in Rs.) Students (UG) 200/- Students (PG/PhD) 500/- Participants from Academia/R&D 700/- Participants from Industries 1000/- Foreign Delegate (Academia/Industry) $20 * The registration is compulsory for all the participants. The registration fee is completely non- refundable. Important Dates Registration Deadline: 25-10-2024 Confirmation by E-mail: 05-11-2024 e-STC duration: 13 – 17th Nov, 2024 How to Apply The interested participants must deposit the registration fee through SBI Collect with the following the steps as given below: Step 1: https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect/icollecthome.htm Step 2: Select Educational Institutions. Step 3: Select State Haryana and search for DIRECTOR NIT KURUKSHETRA in search bar. Then Select DIRECTOR NIT KURUKSHETRA option at the bottom. Step 4: Select Payment Category (RAAM 2024) Step 5: Proceed (Fill the requested details & submit). ▪ Generate the Payment Slip and attach it with the Registration Form using the following link https://forms.gle/1ftDpznepa2duryQA *Minimum 75 % attendance is required to get E- Certificate for registered participants. For more details contact Email id: mednitkkrevent@gmail.com