URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Information-sheet-for-the-post-of-Assistant-Professor-Grade-II-Level-10.pdf
Title: Microsoft Word - Information-sheet-for-the-post-of-Assistant-Professor-Grade-II-Level-10
Description: 
Word Count: 420
--------------------------------------------------
jk"Vªh; izkS|ksfxdh laLFkku] dq:{ks= NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Dated: 10.07.2024 INFORMATION TO THE APPLICANTS FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT PROFESSOR GRADE – II (LEVEL – 10) 1. Selections will be conducted in a phased manner for various Departments of the Institute. The recruitment process will consist of two stages: Stage 1 – Screening Test: i. All the eligible applicants for the post of Assistant Professor Grade-II (Level-10) shall appear for the screening test which will be of qualifying nature only. ii. Merely qualifying the screening test will not imply the eligibility for the interview. iii. The written test will be of Multiple Choice Questions. iv. The syllabus for each branch of specialization shall be notified on the Institute Website along with other essential details. v. The list of shortlisted candidates in the screening test and eligibility criteria as per the advertisement will be notified in the notice board as well as website of the Institute. Stage 2 – Teaching Presentation and Interview: The candidates shortlisted in Stage 1 are required to make a teaching presentation which will be followed by personal interview before the Selection Committee in the Administrative Block of the Institute. The presentation should be made on any topic related to core courses in the UG curriculum and not on the PG/Ph.D./Research topic. 2. It will be the responsibility of the candidate to ensure that he/she is eligible as per the Advertisement. The Institute shall not be responsible for any error/omission/ commission/suppression of any information provided by the applicants, knowingly or unknowingly, while filling up the application form. In case the applicant gets shortlisted/selected on the basis of incorrect, forged, or fabricated details, his/her candidature shall be liable to be cancelled at any stage of recruitment and appropriate legal action under applicable law shall be initiated against such applicants. The Institute reserves the right to alteration/modification/correction in the list of eligible, provisionally eligible, and not-eligible candidate. 3. If a candidate is allowed to appear in screening test/Interview who otherwise does not fulfil the minimum eligibility requirements, the candidate cannot, at a later date, use this as a right to claim that he/she meets the eligibility requirements. The Institute reserves the right not to allow a candidate for either interview or final selection if it is found that: i. Minimum eligibility requirements are not fulfilled. ii. Inadequate proofs / incomplete / false documents have been submitted. iii. Non-submission of valid NOC. iv. Any other similar valid reason. Sd/- Registrar Incharge