URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Advt.No_.07.2025-JRF.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.07.2025-JRF.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 674
--------------------------------------------------
Page 1 of 2 Dr. Shweta Meena, Department of Electronics & Communication nsolidated) for those without GATE ns Materials Science Engg (or) M.Sc. in Electronics he computational approaches of 2D should send their application in the prescribed NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.07/2025 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/Project Associate for the research project funded by Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) Applications are invited from the Indian nationals for one post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/Project Associate for a SERB sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below: Title of the Project : Development of Layered MXene Heterostructure for Hydrogen Storage: High capacity sustainable Material Job duration : The Position is initially for 1 year and extendable until the tenure of the project. The position is purely on temporary basis which may be renewable for another year/s based upon the performance. The position is co-terminus with the duration of the project (Project is for 3 years). Principal Investigator : Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Monthly Emolument : JRF - Rs. 31000 (Consolidated) for those who have qualified GATE or CSIR/UGC NET. Project Associate - Rs. 25,000 (Co or CSIR/UGC NET M. Tech. in VLSI/ECE/ Essential Qualificatio : Science/Chemistry/Physics with a minimum of first division (60% marks or equivalent grade) and passing of GATE/NET test. Computational knowledge is must. Research experience/expertise in t Desirable Qualification : functional materials, optoelectronics, density functional theory is preferential. Age limit : 28 years Interested candidates Application Procedure : format including photograph and signed copy of educational qualifications, and a statement of interest must be sent to Dr. Shweta Meena (PI) by e-mail or by post on or before 25th April 2025. Address to send the application form through e-mail is mail2shwetameena@nitkkr.ac.in Address to send hard copy of the application is: Dr. Shweta Meena Assistant Professor Room No. 212, Department of Electronics & Communication erview shall ensure that they are eligible for the Engineering National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the administrative conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the int position they intend to apply. Page 2 of 2 send their filled application including photograph and signed 2. Interested candidates should scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of interest on and before 25.04.2025. The application should be sent to Dr. Shweta Meena, Assistant Professor, Room No. 212, Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119, India or through e-mail at mail2shwetameena@nitkkr.ac.in. Candidate should have good be 3. nch work capability, technical writing skills and working 4. ears which is co-terminus with the project. ase of selection. er the 7. ong with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience 8. unicated to appear in the interview and no other 10. nterview date. So, candidate must provide 11. 12. onsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and 13. right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. PhD knowledge of computer. The project duration is 3 y 5. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in c 6. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon aft last date of application. Candidate shall bring al certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. Appointment will be contractual in nature. 9. Only short-listed candidates will be comm communication in this regard will be entertained. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the i valid e-mail IDs in their application. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. The applicant will be resp photographs submitted. The Institute reserves the 14. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for program at NIT Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet eligibility requirements as per the rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c