URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/bid.pdf
Title: bid.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 3079
--------------------------------------------------
Bid Details/बड ववरण Bid End Date/Time/बड बंद होने क तारख/समय 11-10-2024 12:00:00 Bid Opening Date/Time/बड खुलने क तारख/समय 11-10-2024 12:30:00 Bid Offer Validity (From End Date)/बड पेशकश वैधता (बंद होने क तारख से) 180 (Days) Ministry/State Name/मं ालय/रा!य का नाम Ministry Of Education Department Name/वभाग का नाम Department Of Higher Education Organisation Name/संगठन का नाम National Institute Of Technology (nit) Office Name/काया%लय का नाम Kurukshetra/haryana Total Quantity/कुल मा ा 2 Item Category/मद केटेगर DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING BOARD (Q3) Minimum Average Annual Turnover of the bidder (For 3 Years)/बडर का 'यूनतम औसत वाष%क टन%ओवर (3 वष- का) 1 Lakh (s) OEM Average Turnover (Last 3 Years)/मूल उपकरण िनमा%ता का औसत टन%ओवर (गत 3 वष- का) 1 Lakh (s) Years of Past Experience Required for same/similar service/उ'हं/समान सेवाओं के िलए अपे23त वगत अनुभव के वष% 1 Year (s) MSE Exemption for Years Of Experience/अनुभव के वष- से एमएसई छूट/ and Turnover/टन%ओवर के िलए एमएसई को छूट 6ा7 है Yes Startup Exemption for Years Of Experience/अनुभव के वष- से 8टाट%अप छूट/ and Turnover/ टन%ओवर के िलए 8टाट%अप को छूट 6ा7 है Yes Document required from seller/व9ेता से मांगे गए द8तावेज़ Experience Criteria,Past Performance,Bidder Turnover,Certificate (Requested in ATC),OEM Authorization Certificate,OEM Annual Turnover,Compliance of BoQ specification and supporting document *In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Experience / Turnover Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer Bid Number/बोली 9मांक (बड सं<या): GEM/2024/B/5454857 Dated/=दनांक : 30-09-2024 Bid Document/ बड द8तावेज़ 1 / 7 Do you want to show documents uploaded by bidders to all bidders participated in bid?/ Yes Past Performance/वगत 6दश%न 10 % Bid to RA enabled/बड से Dरवस% नीलामी स=9य =कया Yes RA Qualification Rule H1-Highest Priced Bid Elimination Type of Bid/बड का 6कार Two Packet Bid Time allowed for Technical Clarifications during technical evaluation/तकनीक मूEयांकन के दौरान तकनीक 8पGीकरण हेतु अनुमत समय 2 Days Inspection Required (By Empanelled Inspection Authority / Agencies pre- registered with GeM) No Evaluation Method/मूEयांकन पHित Total value wise evaluation Arbitration Clause No Mediation Clause No Bid Details/बड ववरण EMD Detail/ईएमड ववरण Required/आवJयकता No ePBG Detail/ईपीबीजी ववरण Required/आवJयकता No MII Purchase Preference/एमआईआई खरद वरयता MII Purchase Preference/एमआईआई खरद वरयता Yes MSE Purchase Preference/एमएसई खरद वरयता MSE Purchase Preference/एमएसई खरद वरयता Yes 1. If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria" subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it would be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria also subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility 2 / 7 for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer. 2. If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria" subject to their meeting of quality and technical specifications. If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it would be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria also subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer. 3. The minimum average annual financial turnover of the bidder during the last three years, ending on 31st March of the previous financial year, should be as indicated above in the bid document. Documentary evidence in the form of certified Audited Balance Sheets of relevant periods or a certificate from the Chartered Accountant / Cost Accountant indicating the turnover details for the relevant period shall be uploaded with the bid. In case the date of constitution / incorporation of the bidder is less than 3-year-old, the average turnover in respect of the completed financial years after the date of constitution shall be taken into account for this criteria. 4. Experience Criteria: In respect of the filter applied for experience criteria, the Bidder or its OEM {themselves or through reseller(s)} should have regularly, manufactured and supplied same or similar Category Products to any Central / State Govt Organization / PSU for number of Financial years as indicated above in the bid document before the bid opening date. Copies of relevant contracts to be submitted along with bid in support of having supplied some quantity during each of the Financial year. In case of bunch bids, the category of primary product having highest value should meet this criterion. 5. OEM Turn Over Criteria: The minimum average annual financial turnover of the OEM of the offered product during the last three years, ending on 31st March of the previous financial year, should be as indicated in the bid document. Documentary evidence in the form of certified Audited Balance Sheets of relevant periods or a certificate from the Chartered Accountant / Cost Accountant indicating the turnover details for the relevant period shall be uploaded with the bid. In case the date of constitution / incorporation of the OEM is less than 3 year old, the average turnover in respect of the completed financial years after the date of constitution shall be taken into account for this criteria. 6. Preference to Make In India products (For bids < 200 Crore):Preference shall be given to Class 1 local supplier as defined in public procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 as amended from time to time and its subsequent Orders/Notifications issued by concerned Nodal Ministry for specific Goods/Products. The minimum local content to qualify as a Class 1 local supplier is denoted in the bid document. If the bidder wants to avail the Purchase preference, the bidder must upload a certificate from the OEM regarding the percentage of the local content and the details of locations at which the local value addition is made along with their bid, failing which no purchase preference shall be granted. In case the bid value is more than Rs 10 Crore, the declaration relating to percentage of local content shall be certified by the statutory auditor or cost auditor, if the OEM is a company and by a practicing cost accountant or a chartered accountant for OEMs other than companies as per the Public Procurement (preference to Make-in -India) order 2017 dated 04.06.2020. Only Class-I and Class-II Local suppliers as per MII order dated 4.6.2020 will be eligible to bid. Non - Local suppliers as per MII order dated 04.06.2020 are not eligible to participate. However, eligible micro and small enterprises will be allowed to participate.The buyers are advised to refer the OM No.F.1/4/2021-PPD dated 18.05.2023 OM_No.1_4_2021_PPD_dated_18.05.2023 for compliance of Concurrent application of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises Order, 2012 and Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017. 7. Purchase preference will be given to MSEs having valid Udyam Registration and whose credentials are validated online through Udyam Registration portal as defined in Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012 dated 23.03.2012 issued by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and its subsequent Orders/Notifications issued by concerned Ministry. If the bidder wants to avail themselves of the Purchase preference, the bidder must be the manufacturer / OEM of the offered product on GeM. Traders are excluded from the purview of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises and hence resellers offering products manufactured by some other OEM are not eligible for any purchase preference. In respect of bid for Services, the bidder must be the Service provider of the offered Service. Relevant documentary evidence in this regard shall be uploaded along with the bid in respect of the offered product or service and Buyer will decide eligibility for purchase preference based on documentary evidence submitted, while evaluating the bid. If L-1 is not an MSE and MSE Seller (s) has / have quoted price within L-1+ 15% (Selected by Buyer) of margin of purchase preference /price band defined in relevant policy, such MSE Seller shall be given opportunity to match L-1 price and contract will be awarded for 25% (selected by Buyer) percentage of total quantity. The buyers are advised to refer the OM No. F.1/4/2021-PPD dated 18.05.2023 OM_No.1_4_2021_PPD_dated_18.05.2023 for compliance of Concurrent application of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises Order, 2012 and Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017. Benefits of MSE will be allowed only if seller is validated on-line in GeM profile as well as validated and approved by Buyer after evaluation of documents submitted. 8. Estimated Bid Value indicated above is being declared solely for the purpose of guidance on EMD amount and for determining the Eligibility Criteria related to Turn Over, Past Performance and Project / Past Experience etc. This has no relevance or bearing on the price to be quoted by the bidders and is also not going to have any impact on bid participation. Also this is not going to be used as a criteria in determining reasonableness of quoted prices which would be determined by the buyer based on its own assessment of reasonableness and 3 / 7 based on competitive prices received in Bid / RA process. 9. Past Performance: The Bidder or its OEM {themselves or through re-seller(s)} should have supplied same or similar Category Products for 10% of bid quantity, in at least one of the last three Financial years before the bid opening date to any Central / State Govt Organization / PSU. Copies of relevant contracts (proving supply of cumulative order quantity in any one financial year) to be submitted along with bid in support of quantity supplied in the relevant Financial year. In case of bunch bids, the category related to primary product having highest bid value should meet this criterion. 10. Reverse Auction would be conducted amongst all the technically qualified bidders except the Highest quoting bidder. The technically qualified Highest Quoting bidder will not be allowed to participate in RA. However, H-1 will also be allowed to participate in RA in following cases: i. If number of technically qualified bidders are only 2 or 3. ii. If Buyer has chosen to split the bid amongst N sellers, and H1 bid is coming within N. iii. In case Primary product of only one OEM is left in contention for participation in RA on elimination of H-1. iv. If L-1 is non-MSE and H-1 is eligible MSE and H-1 price is coming within price band of 15% of Non-MSE L-1 v. If L-1 is non-MII and H-1 is eligible MII and H-1 price is coming within price band of 20% of Non-MII L-1 DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING BOARD ( 2 pieces ) (Minimum 50% and 20% Local Content required for qualifying as Class 1 and Class 2 Local Supplier respectively/9मशः Mेणी 1 और Mेणी 2 के 8थानीय आपूित%कता% के Oप मP अह%ता 6ा7 करने के िलए आवJयक) Technical Specifications/तकनीक विशGयाँ * जेम केटेगर विशG के अनुसार / As per GeM Category Speciﬁcation Specification Specification Name/विशG का नाम Bid Requirement/बड के िलए आवJयक (Allowed Values)/अनुमत मूEय Mechanical Dimensions of the PCB PCB Grade Metal core PCB, LCSO or IPC, Others Additional Parameters Card slots,( blank cards mounted in the frame) (Select 0 if NA 0 - 20 Generic Warranty, (Select 0 if NA) 1.0 - 2.0 Or higher (year) Additional Specification Parameters - DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING BOARD ( 2 pieces ) Specification Parameter Name Bid Requirement (Allowed Values) DSK Trainer Kit As per Buyer Added Specification attached * Bidders offering must also comply with the additional specification parameters mentioned above. Consignees/Reporting Officer/परेषती/Dरपो=टRग अिधकार and/ तथा Quantity/मा ा 4 / 7 S.No./9. सं. Consignee Reporting/Officer/ परेषती/Dरपो=टRग अिधकार Address/पता Quantity/मा ा Delivery Days/=डलीवर के =दन 1 Abhishek Graak 136119,Room No. -304, 2nd Floor, Golden Jubilee Administrative Building, NIT Kurukshetra 2 15 Buyer added Bid Specific Additional Scope of Work S.No.9.सं . Document Title Description Applicable/Dरवस% 6भार के अनुसार जीएसट i.r.o. Items 1 DSK Trainer Kit View DSK Trainer Kit DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING BOARD(2) The uploaded document only contains Buyer specific Additional Scope of Work and / or Drawings for the bid items added with due approval of Buyer’s competent authority. Buyer has certified that these additional scope and drawings are generalized and would not lead to any restrictive bidding. Buyer Added Bid Specific Terms and Conditions/9ेता Tारा जोड़ गई बड क वशेष शतV 1. Generic OPTION CLAUSE: The Purchaser reserves the right to increase or decrease the quantity to be ordered up to 25 percent of bid quantity at the time of placement of contract. The purchaser also reserves the right to increase the ordered quantity by up to 25% of the contracted quantity during the currency of the contract at the contracted rates. Bidders are bound to accept the orders accordingly. 2. Generic Bidders are advised to check applicable GST on their own before quoting. Buyer will not take any responsibility in this regards. GST reimbursement will be as per actuals or as per applicable rates (whichever is lower), subject to the maximum of quoted GST %. 3. OEM IMPORTED PRODUCTS: In case of imported products, OEM or Authorized Seller of OEM should have a registered office in India to provide after sales service support in India. The certificate to this effect should be submitted. 4. Scope of Supply Scope of supply (Bid price to include all cost components) : Supply Installation Testing and Commissioning of Goods 5. Certificates The bidder is required to upload, along with the bid, all relevant certificates such as BIS licence, type test certificate, approval certificates and other certificates as prescribed in the Product Specification given in the bid document. 6. Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC 5 / 7 Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file. 7. Warranty Warranty period of the supplied products shall be 1 years from the date of final acceptance of goods or after completion of installation, commissioning & testing of goods (if included in the scope of supply), at consignee location. OEM Warranty certificates must be submitted by Successful Bidder at the time of delivery of Goods. The seller should guarantee the rectification of goods in case of any break down during the guarantee period. Seller should have well established Installation, Commissioning, Training, Troubleshooting and Maintenance Service group in INDIA for attending the after sales service. Details of Service Centres near consignee destinations are to be uploaded along with the bid. Disclaimer/अ8वीकरण The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity / restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and / or terms and conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is / are incorporated by the Buyer regarding following, the bid and resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of bidding process without any notice:- 1. Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order / Office Memorandum issued by DPIIT in this regard. 2. Seeking EMD submission from bidder(s), including via Additional Terms & Conditions, in contravention to exemption provided to such sellers under GeM GTC. 3. Publishing Custom / BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any Category item bunched with it. 4. Creating BoQ bid for single item. 5. Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name. 6. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders. 7. Floating / creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services. 8. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for attached categories, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries) 9. Mandating foreign / international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without specifying equivalent Indian Certification / standards. 10. Seeking experience from specific organization / department / institute only or from foreign / export experience. 11. Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories. 12. Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy. 13. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses. 14. Asking for any Tender fee / Bid Participation fee / Auction fee in case of Bids / Forward Auction, as the case may be. Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller within 4 days of bid publication on GeM. Buyer is duty bound to reply to all such representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to such representations. This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions/ यह बड सामा'य शत- के अंतग%त भी शािसत है In terms of GeM GTC clause 26 regarding Restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares a land border with India, any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority. While participating in bid, Bidder has to undertake compliance of this and any false declaration and non-compliance of this would be a ground for immediate termination of the contract and further legal action in accordance with the laws./जेम क सामा'य शत- के खंड 26 के संदभ% मP भारत के साथ भूिम सीमा साझा करने वाले देश के बडर से खरद 6 / 7 पर 6ितबंध के संबंध मP भारत के साथ भूिम सीमा साझा करने वाले देश का कोई भी बडर इस िनवदा मP बड देने के िलए तभी पा होगा जब वह बड देने वाला स3म 6ािधकार के पास पंजीकृत हो।बड मP भाग लेते समय बडर को इसका अनुपालन करना होगा और कोई भी गलत घोषणा =कए जाने व इसका अनुपालन न करने पर अनुबंध को त]काल समा7 करने और कानून के अनुसार आगे क कानूनी कार%वाई का आधार होगा। ---Thank You/ध'यवाद--- 7 / 7