URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/STC_CoNSec-2024_Brochure_2p.pdf
Title: STC_CoNSec-2024_Brochure_2p.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 812
--------------------------------------------------
Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Phase-III Sponsored One Week Short Term Course On Recent Trends in Computer & Network Security (CoNSec-2024) (18.12.2024 – 22.12.2024) Hybrid Mode Organized By Department of Computer Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India ABOUT ISEA Phase-III The Ministry of Electronics and Information Security (MeitY) has approved the project entitled ‘Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-III’ towards human resources development for safe, trusted, and secure cyberspace. It aims to create a robust training & certification mechanism for CISOs, Deputy CISOs, and Associate teams of CISOs/Aspirants, groom students towards products/solutions development through ideation & innovation activities, advance research & education in emerging/futuristic areas of Information Security, and build cyber-aware digital naagriks through mass awareness. ABOUT NIT KURUKSHETRA NIT Kurukshetra, formerly known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra was founded in 1963. It was conferred upon the NIT status, with Deemed University on June 26, 2002. The Institute offers several courses, in various disciplines of BTech, MTech, MBA, MCA, and PhD with an annual intake of about 1500 students. The institute also provides excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Engineering, Science, and Technology. The institute has well-qualified and dedicated faculty along with supporting staff, laboratories, and other infrastructure. The infrastructure is geared to enable the institute to produce technical personnel of high quality. ABOUT T The Depa started in with the dynamic preparing well e laboratori Engineerin departme many qua ScienceDi the overa covers th managem of the stu OBJECTIV The STC a theoretica for securi provides technique efficient, the lates technolog detection and secu would en recognize threats. T practical security c theoretica environme THE DEPARTMENT artment of Computer Engineering 1987 with the aim to equip students necessary skills to navigate the landscape of IT requirements for the future. The department is equipped with state-of-the-art ies of all major domains of Computer ng and Information Technology. The ent is equally active in research with ality publications each year in IEEE, rect, ACM, Springer, Wiley, etc. For ll development, the department also e other aspects of life like Health ent, moral and ethical development dents. VES OF THE STC aims to provide the participants with al and practical knowledge essential ing modern digital infrastructures. It the knowledge of various tools and es that are used to build robust, and secure applications. It covers st advancements in cybersecurity gies, including advanced threat systems, encryption techniques, ure network design principles. It able the participants to effectively and mitigate contemporary security The participants will be engaged in exercises that simulate real-world challenges, enabling them to apply al concepts in a controlled ent. TENTATIVE CONTENTS  Introduction: Key concepts and basic terminology in computer and network security, CIA Triad, Authentication, and Authorization.  Cryptography: Overview of Cryptography, Symmetric and Asymmetric Encryption.  Threat Detection: Security Threats, Detection and mitigation mechanisms, overview of IDS and IPS.  AI/ML for Security: Overview of AI/ML, Applications of AI/ML in Security, Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Basic Classification Techniques.  Emerging Trends: Zero Trust Architecture, Cloud security.  Lab Session: Packet analysis using Wireshark, Spam Detection, Malware Analysis, Phishing Detection, Vulnerability Analysis, DoS Detection using ML, etc. ABOUT KURUKSHETRA Kurukshetra is popularly known for its historical and religious importance. Here, the battle of Mahabharata was fought, and Lord Shree Krishna delivered the divine. Kurukshetra is very well connected by Rail, Delhi- Ambala section, by Road (NH1) and by Air (Delhi 160 km and Chandigarh 80 km). The NIT Kurukshetra campus is situated about 10 km from Pipli, Bus stand located on NH1 and about 4 km from Kurukshetra railway station. TARGET AUDIENCE  The STC is open for UG and PG students only. REGISTRATION FEE  There is NO REGISTRATION FEE.  Only limited seats (50) are available in this course. Availability of funds will be taken into consideration while selecting candidates.  No TA/DA will be provided to attend this course.  Limited accommodations are available in the Institute Guest House/Hostel on a payment basis. Concerned participants can request for booking in advance by contacting course coordinators through email.  The STC will happen in HYBRID MODE, physically at the Department of Computer Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra, and through Google Meet virtually. IMPORTANT DATES Last date for Registration: 10 December 2024 Confirmation to the participants (by email): 11 December 2024 Certificates will be provided to all the participants. HOW TO APPLY To apply for the STC, Register through: https://forms.gle/4zVEoqo1RP4UhB5D9 Alternativ Registrati ORGANIZ P Ema E vely, scan here for on: ZING COMMITTEE Chief Patron Prof (Dr) B.V. Ramana Reddy Director NIT Kurukshetra Patron Prof (Dr) A.K. Singh Professor and Head Department of CoE Convener Prof (Dr) Mayank Dave Professor Department of CoE Email: mdave@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-1744-233480 Course Coordinator(s) Dr Kuldeep Kumar Assistant Professor, Department of CoE ail: kuldeepkumar@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-9461210063 Dr Vishwas Rathi Assistant Professor, Department of CoE Email: vishwas@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: +91-7895284774