URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Advt.No_.76.2024.pdf
Title: Advt. No.14.2022
Description: 
Word Count: 831
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.76/2024 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) / Project Associate-I for ISRO funded project Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for a purely project based temporary position of one ‘Junior Research Fellow (JRF) / Project Associate - I’ under the ISRO funded project. The details of the project and the post of recruitment are given below: Title of project: Design and Development of Optical Frequency Comb Source for DWDM application Project Duration: The position is purely on temporary basis and is initially for 1 year which may be renewable for another year/s based upon the performance evaluation by ISRO(SAC) and availability of funds. The position is co- terminus with the duration of the project (Project is for 2.5 years). Job Description: The Junior Research Fellow (JRF) / Project Associate - I is required to assist in carrying out various activities under the project. However, the candidate will be allowed to register for his/her Ph.D. degree in the Department if qualified. Upper age limit: 35 Years; relaxation as per GoI norms. Principal Investigator: Dr. Karamdeep Singh, Assistant Professor Grade-I, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra (NIT Kurukshetra) Co- Principal Investigators: 1. Dr. Brahmjit Singh, Professor (HAG), Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra (NIT Kurukshetra) 2. Dr. Deepa Venkitesh, Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT Madras) Monthly Emoluments: Rs. 37000 (Consolidated) per month + HRA* for Junior Research Fellow Rs. 31000 (Consolidated) per month + HRA* for Project Associate – I *The Junior Research Fellow / Project Associate-I, will not claim HRA, if he/she is provided accommodation in NIT Kurukshetra. Essential Qualification: Junior Research Fellow (JRF): First Class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks in B.Tech. and M.Tech. or equivalent degree in ECE/Electronics/E&T/Electronics and Electrical Engg. Candidate should have qualified UGC NET (JRF or Lectureship (LS)) or GATE. Project Associate-I: Master’s Degree or Bachelor’s Degree in ECE/Electronics/E&T/Electronics and Electrical Engg. Desirable: 1. Programming skills in modelling and simulating Optical Communication Systems on MATLAB/Python platforms. 2. Hands on knowledge of table top optical communication experimental setups and components such as electro-optic modulators, lasers, optical fibers, lasers, optical spectrum analyzers etc. will be preferred. Application Procedure: Eligible and Interested candidates should send their application along with the following: a. Completely filled in application form in the attached format. b. Detailed CV with particulars of prior research experience, publications, if any c. Copy of all degree certificates A single .pdf file with subject line “Application for JRF-your name” be addressed to: karamdeep.ece@nitkkr.ac.in or karamdeep.nitkkr.ece@gmail.com on or before 10th October, 2024. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the position they intend to apply. 2. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of interest on or before 10.10.2024 at email: karamdeep.ece@nitkkr.ac.in. 3. Candidate should have good data analysis, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computer. 4. Candidate should be willing to travel and stay for some duration at IIT Madras as well for carrying out experimental part of the project. 5. The project duration is 30 months or position is co-terminus with the project. 6. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 7. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. 8. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 9. Appointment will be contractual in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions for similar cases. 10. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communications in this regard will be entertained. 11. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their Applications. 12. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 13. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 14. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 15. With a possibility of Hostel accommodation, no HRA is admissible. HRA will be provided as per the rules only if available from Funding agency. 16. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD program at Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet certain eligibility requirements and also qualify the written examination and interview as per rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c