URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Vol-5-issue-2-July-2019.pdf
Title: R & D NEWS LETTER OCT. 2019 FINAL.cdr
Description: 
Word Count: 3675
--------------------------------------------------
Prof. Brahmjit Singh NIT Kurukshetra in its continued pursuit of evolving an ecosystem for innovation driven education and research has inked a partnership with industry to establish the Siemens Centre of Excellence housing eleven laboratories equipped with state-of-the-art industry grade machines, and hardware & software tools.The Centre is unique being the ϔirst in North India oﬀering Skill Development Training Programs in multiple areas of engineering and technology to the students pursuing professional /vocational courses as well as the youth aspiring to join industry as skilled personnel/semi-skilled industry personnel. The Centre provides a unique platform in the region for industry-ready skill development of the youth matching the current need of the industry and aligned with the “Skill India” Prorgamme. Security of data transmission, devices and networks has been the primary concern for all stakeholders. The Institute has expanded its interface with R&D organizations including C-DAC Mohali and private industries to deliver continued excellence in the research and innovation in the area of security. We have been inviting the industries to visit the Institute to explore opportunities for joint initiatives. It is expected that these industry interfaces will fructify into some impactful and result oriented collaborations in the time to come. I am happy to share that there has a been a signiϔicant surge in patents ϔiling in the recent times by the faculty of the Institute. It reϔlects on the potential of the technology transferability of academic research results. Disruptive technologies based on artiϔicial intelligence and machine learning are being developed to augment human intellect. These are also gaining competitive advantage across all industries. Keeping this in view, a number of courses on these technologies have been introduced in the course structures of M. Tech. programs being eﬀective from the academic session 2019-2020. The Techspardha- a national ϔlagship techno-managerial event of the Institute was organized with overwhelming response of students both from intra- and inter-institutes. Showcasing of the participants' creativity and out-of-box solutions to challenging technological and business problems gave huge impetus to our eﬀorts of evolving eﬀective R&D ecosystem in the Institute. We are grateful to the students, faculty and staﬀ for their inputs and feedback. We look forward to hearing from you. Greetings from NIT Kurukshetra National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 Research Research Research & & & Development Development Development Newsletter Newsletter Newsletter (Institution of National Importance) From the Desk of Dean Research and Consultancy RECENTLY SANCTIONED RESEARCH PROJECTS 2 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 Dr. C. R. Mariappan, Deptt. of Physics received research funding from Alexander von Humboldt foundation for a research project “Development of novel solid lithium ionic conductors for advanced lithium-ion battery applications”. It focusses on developing environment friendly novel solid state electrolytes and investigating electrochemical properties against Li-half cell and full cells. Dr. Bhanu Pratap, Electrical Engg. Dept. Prof. Punit Kumar and Prof. Pankaj Chandna from Mechanical Engineering Deptt. received funding from Indian Navy for a research project titled “Design, Fabrication & Testing of Active Magnetic Bearing for Centrifugal Pumps with VFD”.It focuses on designing and testing of active magnetic bearing for centrifugal pumps with variable frequency drive.Salient advantages of using AMB are negligible friction, no direct contact between mating surfaces and hence, no wear, no lubricant required. Dr. Neeraj Kaushik, Department of Business management and Prof. Rajender Kumar, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences were sanctioned a research project from Life Science Research Board, DRDO entitled, “Correlation between psychological and physiological parameters of stress among staff and students- An Empirical Study”. This study will help elucidate the correlation between psychology and physiology while being subjected to aforementioned stressors. In turn, this will help improve eﬃciency and productivity of teachers, staff members and students and the same can be generalized for the personnel of Indian Army and other related services. Prof. Punit Kumar and Dr. Lalit Thakur, Department of Mechanical Engineering received a research funding from DRDO for the project “Synthesis and Characterization of Ceramic-Metal Multilayer Functionally Graded Armor Materials with Improved Ballistic Performance”. The project will focus in synthesizing multilayer ceramic-metal functionally graded materials (FGMs) with and without the insertion of nanoparticles through powder metallurgy route. Extensive investigations will be carried out to evaluate the ballistic performance as well as high strain rate response of the FGM samples. The effect of impact velocity and other projectile parameters on the penetration behavior of targets will be studied. It is also proposed to investigate the effects of FGM structural design parameters and powder metallurgy process parameters on the penetration behavior. 3 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 Dr. Gargi Dixit, was awarded funding under SERB-DST, Women Scientist Scheme-A (WOS-A) with Prof. Brahmjit Singh, Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering as the mentor for the research project entitled, “Performance and Improvement Study of Bi-frequency MILO”. Generating high power microwaves with two frequencies in a single device is indeed a very interesting and promising idea. This project aims at simulating and designing a bi- frequency Magnetically Insulated Line Oscillator (MILO), with two stable and separate frequencies by varying structure parameters as the operating frequency depends on these parameters. The process of designing a bi-frequency MILO includes the choice of desired RF operating mode, RF interaction structure, electron beam parameter, and various operating currents. MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING A memorandum of understanding was signed through a tripartite agreement among NIT Kurukshetra, Siemens Industry Software (India) Pvt. Ltd. and CoreEL Technologies (India) Pvt. Ltd to establish a Siemens Centre of Excellence (SCoE) at NIT Kurukshetra. The Centre will house eleven laboratories equipped with state-of-the-art industry grade machines, equipments, and hardware and software tools relevant to Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering & ECE Departments. It aims to provide an effective industry-academia interface to improve relevance in technical education system in line with industry requirements. The center will offer excellent Dr. Satish Kumar, Director, NIT Kurukshetra and Sh. Sridhar Subramaniam, CFO Siemens signing the MoU in the gracious presence of Prof. Surinder Deswal, Registrar Interactive dialogue in progress at MoU signing ceremony Siemens Centre of Excellence opportunities to students for improving their employability and as such enabling them to compete at national and international level in the employment market for better work opportunities, remuneration and growth. In addition to providing avenues to the staff for skill upgradation, it will also provide the faculty with the facility of research and development in advanced manufacturing and industrial consultancy services. The center is envisaged to add the much needed dimension towards mandate of the Institute to create skilled manpower ready for industry. The objective is in perfect synch with "Skill India" initiative of the Government of India. RECOGNITION Prof. Mahesh Pal, Civil Engineering Department, with a total 64 papers ranked at 41114 in overall ranking as per the recent publication titled “A standardized citation metrics author database annotated for scientiﬁc ﬁeld” by Ioannidis, J. P., Baas, J., Klavans, R., & Boyack, K. W. (2019) in PLoS biology, 17(8), e3000384, in a publicly available database of 100,000 top th scientists worldwide. Prof. Mahesh Pal has 4 position in NITs (total 14 names in the List th from all NITs), 107 out of 328 total worldwide in Geological and Geomatics Engineering th category and 156 out of total 645 researchers from India. Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) Mohali is engaged in the design and development of technological products, services and applications primarily in the areas of cyber forensics and security, multimedia, healthcare and software technologies in addition to imparting education and various training programs. NIT Kurukshetra signed an MoU with C-DAC Mohali to develop technological solutions with major focus on cyber security problems. The collaboration will bring together domain expertise of academia and resources of C-DAC resulting in enhanced capabilities in one of the most challenging areas of Digital India Program-cyber security. Dr. Satish Kumar, Director, NIT Kurukshetra and Dr. P.K. Khosla, Executive Director, C-DAC Mohali exchanging the MoU documents in the gracious presence of (from the left side) Prof. Brahmjit Singh, Prof. Pankaj Chandna and Prof. S M Gupta WORKSHOPS AND CONFERENCES IWEPE-19 was organized from March 17–19, 2019 at NIT Kurukshetra. Important collaborators to this workshop Included-Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, University of Maryland, College Park, University of Illinois Chicago, Analytic & Computational Research Inc. USA. About 20 international speakers from various universities took part in the workshop to discuss various issues related to Power, Propulsion, Pulse Detonation, Environmental Sustainability, Combustion, Emissions, Advanced Diagnostics.The inauguration ceremony was graced by Shri PK Mehta, ACE, DRDO, GoI as Chief Guest and Shri G K Gupta, Joint Secretary, MNRE, Government of India was the guest of honor. Shri Naresh Kumar, Director SASE was also present on the occasion. International Workshop on Energy, Power and Environment 2019 (IWEPE-19) Sh. P.K. Mehta, ACE DRDO lighting the lamp Partnership with C-DAC Mohali 4 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 5 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 The Department of Computer Engineering organized MIND 2019 during 3-4 March 2019. Prof. Ali A. Ghorbani, Director, Canadian Institute for Cyber Security, University of New Brunswick, Canada delivered keynote speech on "A Hub for Cyber Security Innovation and Talent Develop”. He highlighted the importance of Cyber Security and current trends towards talent development. Prof. Ibrahima Faye, Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Malaysia highlighted the current challenges in Machine Learning particularly in Medical Imaging domain through his talk titled “Challenges and Opportunities in Machine Learning Applications: Examples in Medical Imaging and Science & Learning”. About 130 national and international delegates participated in the conference. th 7 National Conference on the topic of Nano- science and Instrumentation Technology (NCNIT- 19), was organized by Physics department during March 9-10, 2019. The conference was inaugurated by Prof. R.K Sinha, Director CSIO, Chandigarh Eighty-seven participants presented their work in the poster form and twelve oral presentations were conducted in the conference. Department of Mechanical engineering NIT Kurukshetra & Society for Fusion of S c i e n c e & T e c h n o l o g y i n J o i n t Collaboration with DTU Delhi, NIT Srinagar a n d S L I E T L o n g o w a l o r g a n i z e d International Conference on New Frontiers in Engineering, Science and Technology, (NFEST-2019). The plenary talk was delivered by Dr. Akshai Runchal, President ACRI, Los Angeles, USA. He delivered a talk on computational fluid dynamics and its applications in engineering and pharmaceutical studies. All together six technical sessions were conducted in parallel and 60 technical papers were presented by the authors in the conference. International Conference on Machine Learning, Image Processing, Network Security and Data sciences (MIND-2019) Inaugural Function of NFEST-19 International Conference on New Frontiers in Engineering, Science & Technology Releasing the proceeding at the Inaugural Function th 7 National Conference of Nanoscience and Instrumentation Technology (NCNIT-2019) Chief Guest Prof. R.K Sinha, Director CSIO, Chandigarh at Inaugural Function 6 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 The Institute organized a Debate Competition (Zonal & State level) in association with Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), GoI, Ministry of Power, New and Renewable Energy Department (NRED), Haryana and rd nd Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency (HREDA), Panchkula on 23 February and 2 March, 2019. The debate was aimed at sensitizing students about the depleting energy sources and a need to come up with alternative sources of energy and to refurbish the existing ones. The debate competition witnessed participation of 22 teams from various engineering colleges from Haryana. On National Science day, a two-day event named Science Conclave-2019 was organised in National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra on February 28, 2019 under the aegis of Department of Science & Technology, Government of Haryana. Science conclave is organized to motivate the school and college children about science through citing the achievements of great Indian Physicists and give thrust to science education, research and development. Important to note that the National Science day is being celebrated to mark the discovery of Raman Effect in year 1928. The inauguration function was graced by Mr. Vivek Atray, former IAS officer, social worker and motivator as chief guest. Mr. Vivek Atray, former IAS lighting the lamp NIT Kurukshetra celebrates National Science Day The participants listening to the Chief Guest NIT Kurukshetra organizes Debate Competition in association with BEE and HREDA Dr. Satish Kumar inaugurates the Debate Competition Winners with the certificate of recognition 7 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 students of the institute along with participants from various other colleges marked their presence in the inaugural ceremony. Prof. V.K Bajpai, Chairperson, Techpspardha-2019 welcomed the esteemed guests. He briefed on how Techspardha helps in overall development of students and helps them to hone their problem solving skills and their personality. He mentioned all the technical societies involved in Techspardha and thanked them for the hard work they have been putting in to make Techspardha'19 a huge success. Prof. Brahmjit Singh, Dean R&C illustrated the impact of technology on society. He emphasized on the overwhelming dependency of the society on the technology and also exciting ideas being developed by the students. He called upon the students not to be afraid of failures as they are stepping stones for tomorrow's success. The Director, Dr. Satish Kumar enlightened the students to develop team spirit. He elaborated the importance of collaborative efforts to meet present day requirements and encouraged the budding engineers to develop affordable and sustainable technologies. He mentioned basic principles in the field TECHSPARDHA-2019 TECHSPARDHA- an annual national level flagship techno-managerial event of the Institute begins with splendid inaugural ceremony on 26.09.2019 in the Jubilee Hall. Air Marshal Sukhchain Singh AVSM VSM (Retd.) IAF, Former Air officer-in- charge of Maintenance, Air Headquarters, New Delhi and a highly distinguished alumnus of NIT Kurukshetra was the Chief Guest on the occasion. Dr. Satish Kumar Director of the Institute presided over the function in the presence of Prof. V.K Bajpai, Prof. Shelly Vadhera, and Prof. Brahmjit Singh. Around 1000 of education and social structure which can make India a complete self- sufficient country. He called upon them to keep their aspirations high and explained them the importance of leading a balanced life. Air Marshal Sukhchain Singh, recipient of the auspicious 'Vishishth Seva Medal' in J a n 1 9 9 9 , g o t n o s t a l g i c a s h e remembered his good old days as a student at the then REC Kurukshetra. He spoke about importance of time management and self-discipline in life. H e e x p l a i n e d w h y e v e n t s l i k e Techspardha are important and also interpreted the exact meaning of innovation by giving examples of incidents from Kargil War, World War 2 and other personal experiences. He also emphasized on competition among teams as being the best point of the event to collaborate among selves. The ceremony came to an end with vote of thanks by Prof. Shelly Vadhera. Dignitaries releasing the Souvenir of Techspardha-2019 Felicitation of the Chief Guest, A.M. Sukhchain Singh by Dr. Satish Kumar, Director NIT, Kurukshetra 8 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 Mechanical Engineering D e p a r t m e n t o f N I T Kurukshetra felicitated the students for their outstanding performance in GATE '19. The Institute honoured Siddharth Wadhwa (AIR-04), Pankaj Sharma (AIR-88), Pankaj Kumar (AIR-245), Purnima Das (AIR-572)and Vivek Garg (AIR-614)with appreciation certificate. On t h i s o c c a s i o n , t h e GATE'19 Toppers The Toppers with Dr. Satish Kumar, Director and Faculty of Mechanical Engg. Deptt. A team of the following students accomplished an innovative project entitled, “Detection of oil level and temperature of Transformer with Arduino" under the supervision of Dr. Atma Ram Gupta, Asstt. Professor, Electrical Engineering Dept. Abhishek Bhargav Rajiv Kumar Saloni Tapan Lav Kush Gupta Dr. Atma Ram Gupta Aqua Rail Distribution 'AQUA RAIL DISTRIBUTION' is a Start-up by the students of the Institute which aims to provide RO purified and cold water 24 hours to the rail passengers at a rate of Rs. 3 per liter. Twenty-three million passengers travel by trains and around 80% of them use plastic for drinking water. The plastic bottles discarded as waste may generate 860 tons of plastic bottles waste daily. It may reduce plastic usage within 40% to 70% per day by serving water into passenger's brought thermos water bottles which will promote green environment as well as the dream of Digital India and Swacch Bharat campaign. It is further envisaged to generate employment to the tune of 10,000 jobs with salary range Rs. 17,000 to 100,000 per month. Students at their best Innovative Project Chief Guest Dr. Satish Kumar Director of the Institute congratulated the students and inspired them to hold high torch and encouraged them further in their career. The team Aqua Rail Distribution: Ranjan Sharma, Virendra Pratap Singh, Sumit Kumar, Ashish Kumar Sahu and DVVS Surya The team with Dr. Satish Kumar, Director, NIT Kurukshetra 9 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 DRDO with more than 50 laboratories under its umbrella is engaged in the development of defence and other related technologies encompassing almost all disciplines of engineering, technology, life sciences and agriculture. We have been actively exploring the opportunities of possible research collaborations with DRDO towards finding technological solutions to the defence related problems during the last few years. To seek the collaborative research work in the area of microwaves, Dr. Lalit Kumar FNAE, AICTE-INAE Distinguished Visiting Professor & Former Director MTRDC, DRDO Bangalore visited the Institute and interacted with the faculty of ECE Department. He also delivered an expert talk on "Microwaves and its Applications in Defense Sector." He shared his vast and versatile working experience of DRDO with the faculty and students. Beginning with "Aryabhata" India's first satellite developed in 1975, ISRO has made the country proud having launched Chandrayaan-2 in 2019. This space agency of India has stood by their vision to "Harness Space Technology for National Development" by making numerous record breaking achievements including the launch of 104 satellites with one rocket into space in 2017. Dr. P.V. Venkitakrishnan, Director, and Dr. M.A. Paul, Associate Director, CBPO, ISRO, Bangalore visited the Institute on 28.03.2019. They walked through the laboratories of engineering and sciences departments. Detailed deliberations were held to explore the potential areas of collaboration between ISRO and NIT Kurukshetra. The Awardees (from left to right) : Prof. Dinesh Khanduja, Dr. Ghule Vikas Dasharath, Dr. Anurag Gaur, Prof. R P Chauhan, Dr. Babita Saini, Prof. V.K. Arora, Prof. Brahmjit Singh, Dr B B Gupta and Dr. Sarika Jain being felicitated by Dr. Satish Kumar, Director NIT Kurukshetra in the gracious presence of Prof. Akhilesh Swarup, Dean (P & D) and Prof. Arun Goel Dean (FW) . The Best Faculty Awards-2019 Visitors at NIT Kurukshetra Dr. Lalit Kumar, FNAE being received by Prof. Brahmjit Sihngh, Dean (R & C) Dr. P.V. Venkitakrishnan and Dr. M.A. Paul alongwith Dr. Satish Kumar, Director in High Voltage Engg. Lab of Electrical Engineering Department 10 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 IEEE is the world's largest technical society enabling the access to industry's most important technical contents, networking opportunities, and career development tools. It provides platform with the faculty and students to stay current with the fast paced world of technology. The interface of NIT Kurukshetra with IEEE in recent times has marked a surge through various joint academic activities and encouraging the students to be associated with the society. Various events including conferences and series of expert talks are being conducted regularly to leverage the benefits of different IEEE Societies. Dr. Poonam Jindal, ECE Deptt. delivering expert talk on IoT: Open research challenges Short Term Courses(STCs) in academia provide an excellent opportunity to faculty, research scholars and students to gain the knowledge and hands-on in a specific domain. These courses indeed offer imperative tools for bridging the knowledge gap and offering the competitive edge in professional career development. Optimization of the resources and the processes has always been at the forefront of engineering discipline. The relevance of soft computing optimization techniques has increased manifold with the advent of data intensive applications. An STC on “Advanced Optimization Techniques for Engineering Applications” was organized in IEEE ComSoc at the Institute AOTEA Session in progress Interactive Session of the faculty with the Team GAIL in progress the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering during 22-26 July 2019. Domain knowledge experts from NITs, IITs, and SAU, Delhi were invited as resource persons to deliver lectures and conducting laboratory sessions for hands-on experience. The STC received overwhelming response of the participants from across the country. Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), one of the Maharatna companies of India, has extended its outreach of R&D activities to enhance its technological capabilities. To explore the opportunities of research collaborations, NIT Kurukshetra invited GAIL Scientists to interact with our faculty to look for the synergy between their R&D problems and expertise of our faculty. A team from GAIL comprising of Sh. Rahul Sharma CM (R&D) and Sh. T.P. Yuvaraj CM (R&D) visited the Institute on 17.09.2019. A workshop was conducted to deliberate upon the application needs of GAIL and the proposed research proposals from the faculty from different departments of the Institute. 11 Vol. 5 | Issue 2 | July 2019 NIT Kurukshetra in News www. nitkkr.ac.in DEAN, RESEARCH & CONSULTANCY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA-136119 (Haryana) Tel: +91-01744-233221 | Email: deanrc@nitkkr.ac.in Queries related to research and consultancy may please be addressed to: Editor-in-Chief: PROF. BRAHMJIT SINGH Dean, Research and Consultancy Editor: PROF. MAHESH PAL Professor in-Charge, (R&C) To be a role model in technical education and research responsive to global challenges To impart quality technical education that develops innovative professionals and entrepreneurs and to undertake research that generates cutting edge technologies and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs, Vision Mission