URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/PMADA-2024.docx.pdf
Title: PMADA-2024.docx
Description: 
Word Count: 705
--------------------------------------------------
About Kurukshetra Kurukshetra is a place of great spiritual significance deeply steeped in history and mythology where Lord Krishna delivered the divine message of "Shrimad Bhagwad Gita". It is one of the premier centers of pilgrimage attracting devotees in a steady stream all- round year. Kurukshetra is very well connected by Rail (Delhi-Karnal-Ambala section), by Road (NH1 which connects Delhi-Chandigarh-Amritsar-Jammu) and by Air (Delhi 160 Km and Chandigarh 80 Km). The NIT Campus is about 10 km from Piplisituated on NH1 and about 5 km from Kurukshetra railway station. About National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra (NITKKR) (Institution of National Importance) NITKKR(formerly known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra in 1963) was conferred upon the status of Institution of National Importance (Deemed University) on June 26, 2002. The Institute has B.Tech.,M.Tech., MBA and MCA courses in various disciplines with an annual intake of about 1500 students. Institute also offers excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Science and Technology leading to Ph.D. degree. The institute has well-qualified and dedicated faculty along with splendid supporting staff, laboratories and other infrastructure. The infrastructure is geared to enable the institute to produce technical personnel of high quality. About the Department of Computer Engineering (CoE), NITKKR The department started offering B.Tech. Programme in Computer Engineering in 1987 with initial intake of 30 students and subsequently raised to 210. The department also started a B.Tech programme in Information Technology (IT) in 2006 with the present intake of 140 students. The Department is offering a new undergraduate program from the 2023-24 academic session in AI & ML. The department is running four B. Tech Programs, i) Computer Engineering; ii) Information Technology; iii) Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning (AI & ML); iv) Artificial Intelligence & Data Science. Chief Patron Prof. B V Ramana Reddy, Director, NITKKR Patron Prof. A. K. Singh, HOD CSE, NITKKR Convener(s) Dr. Punit Kumar Course Coordinator(s) Dr. Banhi Sanyal, Dr. Amandeep Kaur Important Dates Last date of Registration: December 18, 2024 For query, please contact: punit_kumar@nitkkr.ac.in, banhi.sanyal@nitkkr.ac.in, amandeep1426@nitkkr.ac.in +91-9516154342, +91-8777048400 Short Term Course (Online Mode) On Probabilistic Modeling for Advance Data Analysis (PMADA-2024) (December 19 - December 24, 2024) Department of Computer Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India Why Probabilistic Modeling? Probabilistic models are an essential component of machine learning, which aims to learn patterns from data and make predictions on new, unseen data. They are statistical models that capture the inherent uncertainty in data and incorporate it into their predictions. Probabilistic models are used in various applications such as image and speech recognition, natural language processing, and recommendation systems. In recent years, significant progress has been made in developing probabilistic models that can handle large datasets efficiently. Data Analysis is extensively used to discover relevant insights of the data that lead to smarter and more effective decision-making. To build the bases for Data Analysis, the course provides a comprehensive understanding of the principles and theories behind probabilistic modeling which creates an understanding of the principles of Bayesian statistics and inference. Course Contents ● Introduction to Probabilistic Modeling. ● Probability Distributions and Applications. ● Bayesian Inference and Decision Making. ● Markov Chains and Hidden Markov Models. ● Probabilistic Graphical Models. ● Advanced Topics in Probabilistic Modeling. Resource Persons are from IITs, NITs, IIITs, and Institutes of repute. Who should attend Faculty members / research scholars / students from academic institutes approved by the AICTE//UGC /MHRD and Scientists / Engineers working in private / Public/ Govt. organizations / industries etc. can attend the course S. No. Participants Category Course Fee (Rs.) 1. Research Scholars/Students 500 2. Faculty members 1000 3. Industry/R&D/Govt. Org. professionals 2000 Participants will be selected on a first-come-first served basis. How to apply online for registration Click https://forms.gle/wakuzgfg9GyYVYBE9 Fill the google form and submit the same. Instructions for registration fee 1.Go to SBI Collect or click on https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect 2.Select Educational Institution 3.Select Haryana 4.Select Director National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra 5.Select PMADA-2024 6.Make the payment and collect the receipt REGISTRATION FORM Short Term Course (Online Mode) On Probabilistic Modeling for Advance Data Analysis (PMADA-2024) (Dec. 19 - Dec. 24, 2024) Name: Date of Birth: Designation: Organization: Address for correspondence: Phone: E-mail: Qualifications Transaction details: Transaction ID: Date of payment: Amount: Signature of applicant