URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Training-Placement-Brochure-2023-24.pdf
Title: Training & Placement Brochure 2023-24.cdr
Description: 
Word Count: 5830
--------------------------------------------------
2023-24 PLACEMENT BROCHURE NIT KURUKSHETRA Institution of National Importance DIRECTOR'S DESK I National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, an institute of National Importance, has entered into 60th years of its existence, and celebrating the Diamond Jubilee Year starting from 01.07.2022. Needless to say, our success stays sans boundaries, with a strong 40000 + Alumni dotting the World map serving in various capacities, building business establishments and entrepreneurs in their own right. NIT Kurukshetra stands 44th at NIRF ranking and at the 8th position among 31 NITs. Established in 1963, NIT Kurukshetra is an institution of national importance that nurtures it's students in their overall technical and personality development. NIT Kurukshetra has a rich tradition of pursuing excellence and has continually reinvented itself in terms of academic programs and research infrastructure. The curriculum is so designed to develop holistic personalities with a sense of commitment towards society by identifying the societal problems and nding innovative and creative solutions, by applying current technologies to their benet. Value-based education model is being designed to be implemented from the current academic session (2022-23) to achieve the objectives of the National Education Policy - 2020 and to look forward to nullify the ills identied, through sustainable developmental goals (SDG- IT). As you are aware, we are a preferred destination for aspiring engineers across the country for the past several years. We highly value our partnership with recruiters, and strive to make their recruiting experience productive and positive. I, on behalf of NIT Kurukshetra, invite organizations to visit our institute for campus recruitment. Prof. B.V.R. Reddy As we step into the promising landscape of the 21st century, India, a beacon of growth in the developing world, continues to thirst for bright, diligent, and technically adept minds. The National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, renowned for its cutting-edge research and academic programs, stands as a proud symbol of nurturing an ecosystem that fosters academic growth and holistic development in our students. With over ve decades of excellence, NIT Kurukshetra has etched a rich legacy as one of the nation's premier institutes. We are committed to shaping tomorrow's leaders by imparting knowledge intertwined with excellence and innovation. As technology advances relentlessly to meet the industry's ever-evolving needs, NIT Kurukshetra has consistently risen to the challenge, adapting itself seamlessly to the shifting sands of corporate requirements. We hold our partnership with recruiters, alumni, and well-wishers of NIT Kurukshetra in the highest regard, and we remain committed to ensuring that your recruiting experience with us is both productive and enriching. I am condent that the exceptional talent pool we present to you today will not only be valuable assets to your organizations but also contribute signicantly to our nation's progress. With great pride, I warmly invite all recruiting organizations and graduating students to forge meaningful connections. Discover the perfect synergy between your requirements and their capabilities, as we collectively embark on a journey towards excellence. As we celebrate another year of growth and achievement, we extend our heartfelt gratitude to you for being an integral part of NIT Kurukshetra's journey. Together, let us continue to build bridges of success and unleash the limitless potential that lies ahead. II Dean | Research & Consultancy Prof. R. K. Sharma I In India, the emphasis on domestically produced goods has become central to the country's industrial progress. This has led to a growing demand for individuals with sharp intellectual abilities, keen observation skills, attentiveness, and technical prociency. NIT Kurukshetra has embraced this challenge head-on and has admirably met the demands of the industrial sector. We take immense pride in our rich legacy of fostering an academic environment that effectively bridges the gap between industry requirements, cutting-edge research, ground breaking innovations, and the comprehensive development of every student. Technology is in a perpetual state of evolution as it strives to meet market demands, and it brings us great satisfaction to report that our students are exceptionally well-prepared to navigate the competitive landscape with condence and competence. I take great pleasure in extending a courteous invitation to all recruitment agencies to help them discover the greatest talents and best t possible for their requirements. I have no doubt that the recruitment experience at NIT Kurukshetra will be rewarding for your organization and assure you the complete cooperation. ASSOCIATE DEAN Industry & International Relations Associate Prof. Shelly Vadhera I II Dr. Modi Pandu Ranga Prasad I feel elated and grateful to be entrusted with the responsibility of being the interconnecting link between academia and the industry thereby providing the platform to a pool of talented, energetic individuals of the prestigious National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra to get associated with the most noteworthy organisations. NIT Kurukshetra, as its motto suggests "Shramo Anavarat Chesta Cha", has been in constant pursuit of excellence with its hard work and consistent effort in providing quality education to students. The institute is home to a versatile environment where both faculty and students together thrive to achieve success in all aspects be it technical skills, theoretical foundation, professional etiquette, industrial collaborations, lab experiences, and the list goes on. This has not only helped NIT Kurukshetra achieve the status of being an institute of national importance but also reach the milestone of entering the Diamond jubilee year and completing 60 glorious years of profound eminence in the eld of technical education. A balanced blend of knowledgeable faculty with years of experience, excellent lab facilities, numerous cultural and sports activities, and top-notch research facilities of international standards together mold the students to possess excellent academic qualities along with efcient managerial and interpersonal skills to face and overcome modern day challenges in any eld that they pursue. The outstanding list of alumni occupying decorated designations in various organisations is a testimony to this. We are condent that our smart, young, and diligent students will be an inevitable asset to your association/organisation. It would be our pleasure to assist you in identifying the best-suited individuals and developing a fruitful recruitment relationship I would also take this opportunity to be thankful for the unparalleled support offered by numerous organisations without which the aforementioned success is incomplete. This triumphant collaboration has been growing ever since and I anticipate your presence and participation in the placement drive of NIT Kurukshetra. FACULTY IN-CHARGE Training and Placement III ASSOCIATE FACULTY IN-CHARGE Training and Placement "It is an honour and opportunity for us to present a group of dynamic and self- motivated individuals who have been groomed to face the industry and corporate world-associated challenges. In this era of technological innovation & dynamic business environment, educational institutions are contributing towards nurturing and encouraging young minds to place them at the peak of success. NIT Kurukshetra is one of the leading institutions of national importance that promotes and empowers its students towards their overall development. The bright, dedicated students and expert professional faculty create a great learning environment here. Our teaching pedagogy (which consists of group discussions, presentations, case analysis, live projects, educational and industrial tours and involvement in seminars and conferences, etc.), intensive training, encouraging learning environment, club, sports and cultural activities assist our students in their personality development & acquiring desired employability skills. These young minds would be an asset and talent to your association with their technical and managerial capabilities. We aim to keenly support all our recruiters in attracting and identifying the individuals best suited to their job needs and developing a successful recruitment relationship. We also want to thank all our prominent recruiters for successfully placing our previous batches in the leading companies, and we look forward to establishing a more profound, healthy, mutually benecial relationship with your esteemed organizations." Dr. Priyanka Sihag ABOUT THE INSTITUTE IV National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra is an Institution of National Importance that enjoys the reputation of being a centre of excellence, facilitating sophisticated technical and management education and research. A recent Dataquest-IDC-NASSCOM survey placed the institute among the top twenty premier institutions in the country. Established in the year 1963, NIT Kurukshetra has made rapid strides towards excellence. A sprawling lush green campus, outstanding infrastructure, state of the art support system, contemporary curriculum and dedicated faculty provide an enabling environment for quality teaching, learning and research. A number of research projects sponsored by DST, MHRD CSIR, AICTE, UGC and various other funding agencies are carried out by the institute. NIT Kurukshetra recognizes institute-industry interface and promotes interaction with the industry through student placements, consultancy services, research projects and jointly organized workshops, seminars, conferences etc. Our Vision To be a role model in technical education and research, responsive to global challenges. Our Mission To impact quality technical education that develops innovative professionals and entrepreneurs and to undertake research that generates cutting edge technologies and futuristic knowledge, focusing on the socio-economic needs. V CONTENTS Academic Programs 1 Academic Demographics 2 Training & Placement Cell 3 Placement Procedure 4-5 Rules & Regulations 6-7 Industry & Entrepreneurship Cell 8-9 Major Recruiters 10-13 Placement Demographics 14-15 Students' Life 16-17 Testimonials 18-19 Our Pride 20-23 Cardinal Mentions 24 Reach Us 25 Placement Team 26-27 The programs at NIT Kurukshetra are designed to provide emphasis on fundamentals. The course work is designed in such a way that students will acquire all the required tools to tackle industrial problems once they graduate. BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY Admission Procedure: v JOSAA / CSAB v Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) v International Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) /MEA (Govt. of India) v Study in India - MHRD, Now Ministry of Education (Govt. of India) Duration: 4 years MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY Admission Procedure: v Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) Duration: 2 years MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS Admission Procedure: v MCA Common Entrance Test (NIMCET) Duration: 2.5 years + 6 months Internship MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Admission Procedure: v Common Aptitude Test (CAT, MAT) followed by GD and Interview Duration: 2 years DOCTORAL PROGRAM in all disciplines of Science & Engineering ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 1 ACADEMIC DEMOGRAPHICS 2 TOTAL STRENGTH STUDENT STRENGTH (PG) Civil Engineering Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Electronics & CommunicaƟon Engineering Computer Engineering School of VLSI & Embedded System School of Renewable Energy and Eﬃciency Physics MBA MCA B.Tech. M.Tech. MBA MCA Total Intake 187 168 201 112 173 115 129 STUDENT STRENGTH (UG) Civil Engineering Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Production & Industrial Engineering Electronics & CommunicaƟon Engineering Computer Engineering Information Technology 72 36 36 14 46 63 5 8 42 91 1085 280 42 91 1498 TRAINING AND PLACEMENT CELL Training and Placement Cell, NIT Kurukshetra conducts all recruitment related activities of the institute. The placement team works tirelessly to ensure that top notch opportunities are brought to the students & manages all interactions between the visiting companies and the institute. NIT Kurukshetra assures the best facilities and support possible to the recruiting companies. 3 Auditorium and lecture halls fully equipped with latest multimedia and Wi-Fi for pre-placement talks (PPTs), workshops etc. Facility of tele-conferencing, video-conferencing and online interviews. Seminar and conference rooms for group discussions and personal interviews. In-campus accommodation with modern facilities in the guest house for the recruiting panel. Complete assistance by the student co-ordinators at each level of placement process. Highly motivated and experienced staff to synchronize the whole process. PLACEMENT PROCEDURE 4 The placement season begins in the month of August and goes up till June of the following year Invitations with the relevant information are sent to various organisations by the Placement Cell The interested organisations are requested to share the relevant information pertaining to recruitment with the Placement Cell The Placement Cell schedules the visit of the organisation on the basis of the information furnished by the organisation and availablity of slots Single Point of Contact (SPOC) is allotted to the organisation 5 PLACEMENT PROCEDURE The information shared by the organisation is made available to the students. Eligible and interested students register themselves for the recruitment process The veried database of all such students is shared with the organisation through the SPOC On the day of the campus recruitment, pre-placement talks, GDs, personal interviews etc. are coordinated and managed by the SPOC alloted to the company. Organisation declares the list of the nal offers either on-campus or through e-mail Training and Placement Cell coordinates the signing of the offer letters by the students who have been selected 6 RULES AND REGULATIONS The purpose of the Placement/Internship Rules and Regulations is to dene the overall structure & process of the Placement and Internship drive facilitated by Training & Placement cell (T&P Cell) and to structure the roles & responsibilities of the students. v As per the revised curriculum, the UG students shall be undergoing Internship/Industrial training/Project work in their 6th semester. v In case, at any stage the T&P cell is involved (immaterial to the extent of participation of the T&P cell), in any Internship/Placement process, that Internship/Placement will be considered as on-campus and the T&P cell guidelines will be applicable on that process. v For the companies which are offering PG internship for 6-11 months it will be mandatory for the industry to provide /assign co-supervisor/project manager. v PG internship/project work in reputed academic Institutions / R&D / Government organizations will be allowed only after the recommendation of the concerned supervisor and HoD of the respective department. Students having internship in academic institutions / R&D / Govt. organizations will remain eligible for full time placement v PG internship offers except in academic Institutions / R&D / Government organizations will be considered equivalent to job offers. The second round of placement will commence after getting 80% of the job offers in respective PG specialization. v Dean (Academic) will approve PG internship cases only on the recommendation of Dean (I&IR) and the selected candidates can join the concerned industry only after receiving the approval from the competent authority. v In case, the nal result of an organization is awaited, the shortlisted students shall continue to be eligible to appear in the upcoming companies. Once the awaited result is received. The selected students will not be allowed to appear further in the ongoing process of the recruitment of any organization. RULES AND REGULATIONS 7 v Visit of the organizations are being scheduled considering many parameters like pay package, company prole, etc., but it may not be feasible in all cases. v It is mandatory for the shortlisted students to attend the Pre-Placement Talk (PPT) delivered by the company representatives. In case the shortlisting has not been provided, all those students who have given expression of interest have to attend the company PPT. v The T&P cell shall follow one person, one Job policy, however, the second round of placements of any branch will commence only after 80% of the eligible students get placed in the respective branch (excluding the bonus companies). The placed students will be eligible for the second round only if the CTC offered is greater than the rst offer. Additionally, the eligible students must give an undertaking to T&P cell that, in case they get 2nd offer, their rst offer should be dissolved with immediate effect. The same information will be communicated to the concerned organization through T&P cell. v The second round of placements of any branch commences only after 80% of the eligible students get placed in the respective branch (excluding the bonus companies). The placed students will be eligible for the second round only if the package offered is greater than the initial offer. v If a student gets placed in a bonus company, he/she will be eligible for the ongoing and further rounds of placement drive but would not be eligible for other bonus companies. v The students having one job offer are eligible to appear in PSUs only if 40% of the eligible students of the respective branch have already been placed. If the rst offer is in a PSU, the concerned students will not be eligible for any other organization including PSUs in the ongoing and further round(s) of placement drive. v T&P Cell allows Pool-Campus Drives only with the Institute of repute. 8 What is Industry & Entrepreneurship Cell? Industry and Entrepreneurship Cell, NIT Kurukshetra is a nonprot student organization dedicated to promoting the spirit of entrepreneurship among students. The students having the spirit and potential to be an entrepreneur or become leaders and managers come together to work on their skills. This cell has like minded and extremely creative members and due to its methodical aim, the group is recognized by ofcials of NIT Kurukshetra and is also serviced by some of the faculty members. Being least interested in any personal prot, I&E Cell dedicatedly develops young minds and nurtures them to use their budding ideas to serve the community. Industry and Entrepreneurship Cell is already excelling in its motive by conducting brain storming events, competitions, workshops and seminars to not only give students, awareness of industry needs but also help them present their ideas and get aid from their society peers. Structured and efcient working of an organisation requires teams that handle different domains. For I&E Cell, three teams that are functioning and operating it precisely and successfully are- Corporate & Relations Team Technical Team Media and Marketing Team INDUSTRY & ENTREPRENEURSHIP CELL INDUSTRY & ENTREPRENEURSHIP CELL 9 SARG A bunch of young passionate students of NIT Kurukshetra came together to work on the idea of tooling up fresh developers. They established a link between content producers and in house startups. Established in April 2019, by Siddharth Shekhar and Vishal Pratap Singh, the company has already shared its content across multiple channels and pages and helped 8 silicon valley startups to reach what they deserve by providing them organic content and helped them reach millions through social media posts. MEAU Founded by Vibhanshu, an alumni of NIT Kurukshetra, MEAU allows you to organize, share, and analyse all of your links in one place by creating attractive Linktrees. The company provides hub of well-designed demo proles and lets you customize the font style, button style, and format. Not only this, but it also provides amenities like URL shortener, link locker and in-depth analytics. The startup is already excelling in its eld by engaging a great deal of users. Faculty Internship Coordinator (UG) for Academic Session 2023-24 IN-HOUSE STARTUPS Sr. No. Department Coordinator 01 Electrical Engineering Dr. Shelly Vadhera Dr. M.P.R. Prasad 02 Electronics & Communication Engineering Dr. Poonam Jindal Dr. Ashutosh Nandi 03 Civil Engineering Dr. Babita Saini Dr. A.K. Prabhakar 04 Computer Engineering Dr. Kriti Bhushan (for IT) Dr. Santosh Kumar (for CoE.) 05 Mechanical Engineering Dr. Sandeep Singhal Dr. Satnam Singh 10 MAJOR RECRUITERS MAJOR RECRUITERS 11 12 MAJOR RECRUITERS MAJOR RECRUITERS 13 PLACEMENT DEMOGRAPHICS 14 Placement Record (UG) CTC Offered (UG) (2022-23) CTC Offered (PG) (2022-23) Sr. No. Branch No. of Eligible Students No. of Placement Oﬀers No. of Students Placed Students Placed % Lowest Package (LPA) Highest Package Median Package Average Package 1 Civil Engineering 138 80 78 56.52 4.00 40.00 7.40 9.09 2 Computer Engineering 89 88 80 89.89 8.50 57.75 18.50 3 Information Technology 110 109 101 91.82 5.00 62.75 17.00 21.12 4 Electronics & Commu- nication Engineering 147 113 109 74.15 6.00 62.75 14.83 5 Electrical Engineering 141 120 114 80.85 5.50 44.50 11.77 13.86 6 Mechanical Engineering 167 135 125 74.85 4.00 40.00 8.00 9.81 7 Production Engineering 82 55 55 67.07 4.00 40.00 8.50 10.49 Summary 874 700 662 75.74 4.00 62.75 11.07 14.16 (LPA) (LPA) (LPA) 21.89 17.66 Sr. No. Branch 1 M.Tech 2 MBA 3 MCA No. of Eligible Students No. of Placement Oﬀers No. of Students Placed % Students Placed Highest Package Median Package Average Package 335 203 197 58.81 25.15 9.00 11.29 36 24 24 66.67 13.58 7.15 7.69 89 88 86 96.63 15.66 8.75 9.55 (LPA) (LPA) (LPA) Less then 4 4 to 6 6 to 10 More than 10 0.00% 11.07% 34.53% 54.40% Less then 4 4 to 6 6 to 10 More then 10 0.00% 5.29% 35.95% 58.76% Placement Record (PG) PLACEMENT DEMOGRAPHICS 15 Comparative Statistics No. of Companies Visited 458 Max CTC Offered 62.75 LPA Average CTC 14.16 LPA Median CTC 11.07 LPA UG Internship 2022-23 Avg. Pay Package (LPA) 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2020-21 Highest Package (LPA) 125 115 105 95 85 75 65 55 45 35 25 2021-22 2021-22 2020-21 Civil Engineering Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Computer Engineering Information Technology Production Engineering NO. OF STUDENTS NO. OF INTERNSHIP OFFERS % OF INTERNSHIP 250 200 150 100 50 0 2022-23 2022-23 STUDENTS' LIFE NIT Kurukshetra strives to build a platform for aspiring engineers to be future leaders with the right mix of academics and extra-curricular activities. Imparting technical, managerial and interpersonal skills, the institute nurtures students and prepares them for excelling in the challenges posted by the workplace environment. TechSpardha is the annual techno-managerial festival of National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra. It is an event where different student bodies coalesce and strive to develop an ideal platform. In this fest participants from all over the country put their technical skills to use and compete at national level. Techspardha is known for organizing a wide range of events that include competitions, exhibitions, lectures as well as workshops. Various technical societies work tirelessly to make this event a grand success every year. TECHSPARDHA CONFLUENCE Conuence, the annual cultural festival of NIT Kurukshetra is a cultural extravaganza beyond words. Conuence is the coming together of free spirits of like minded zealous youth and a celebration of culture of true artistic genius. Its urge to deliver the maximum is what makes Conuence one of the most awaited cultural festival. It attracts a whopping 20,000 students from more than 120 colleges all over the country. Various students’ clubs work relentlessly to make this event a grand success every year. 16 ROOH & SHIKSHA Rooh and Shiksha are non protable social societies. Rooh organises blood donation campaigns in the institute among other activities. Shiksha supports needy children with school fees and provides other possible help like free books, free tuitions, etc. These societies are driven by the motive to give something back to the people. CITIUS CITIUS, The annual sports festival of NIT Kurukshetra provides a platform for students to participate in various sporting events. Every year athletes from different NITs compete to become the ultimate champion. But only a select few, who truly have the grit and persistence triumph. The event carries a legacy that promises to grow bigger with every passing year. SAE SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) practices extreme engineering to develop vehicles like All Terrain Vehicles (ATV), Formula cars, and Human powered hybrid vehicles. The society is engaged with various teams. Efcycle team achieved AIR 6 among 90 teams in Efcycle event 2015. Team Nitrox is involved in making off-road vehicles and achieved AIR 2 (most cost efcient vehicle) out of 320 teams in Mahindra BAHA 2016 competition. Team Accelerons is responsible for designing formula style racing car. The team participated in SUPRA SAE INDIA th 2017 and achieved overall 18 rank among 122 teams. SAE aims to scale new heights by throttling its way to a podium nish. 17 18 TESTIMONIALS Being an optimistic and ambitious person, I had many hopes and dreams when I enrolled in NIT Kurukshetra, whether it be college life, academics, placement or and personal cum professional development. I can now afrm that it provided sufcient resources and platforms at every level, which assisted in my holistic development. From the rst year itself, the college provided ample opportunities that helped me explore my interest, by participating in webinars/workshops, conferences, technical/cultural/sports events, competitions, and alumni interactions. Therefore, I encourage my juniors to always participate in every college activity, to explore themselves. The curriculum of the Electrical Department carried its own uniqueness. Faculties in my department were very supportive and used to constantly guide on BPCL Shivam Saxena learning resources, career prospects, GATE preparation, and higher education. Having such interactive exposure helped me to nd the right career trajectory very early on. Not the least, the junior-senior interaction that I witnessed in my college, was very constructive. Being the Class Representative, Member of Electroreck, and Student Council Representative, helped me in developing my professional interactions, and enhancing my leadership and management skills. The Placement Cell functioned pretty well, in providing a spectrum of companies. I did my internship in Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, got the PPO, and then was selected in Cairn Oil and Gas, and nally got selected in the PSU, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited through campus. I believe if one has the right attitude towards opportunities, the college has enough to give it to us. Hence, never give up, and keep trying. As I step forward in my new phase of life in BPCL, I will always cherish these four years of my college life, and be forever grateful to it. I will do my best, to contribute to society, and my organization effectively and ethically, and make my alma mater proud. Having had worked in the industry after my B.tech, when it came to pursuing my masters in control system - a subject that I was really passionate about NIT Kurukshetra was atop the list of my preferences. Only a handful of NITs offer pure Control System course and at NIT KKR it is one of its agship PG specialisation. I am immensely grateful to my alma mater for providing me with an exceptional platform and a diverse range of courses taught by eminent faculties. This played a pivotal role in helping me master the subject as well as crack the Mercedes-Benz placement drive at our college. The state-of-the-art advanced control systems lab which is in par with IITs, provide an exemplary platform to get hands-on understanding of the practical aspects as well. The picturesque surroundings and serene atmosphere not only made learning a joy but also provided a tranquil setting for focused academic pursuits. The expertise, dedication, and commitment of the Sharon Palliyadimuriyil Simon Mercedes Benz R&D India NIT Kurukshetra has been an incredible journey for me, one that has signicantly shaped my academic and personal growth. This institution has offered me immense opportunities for development, and I am proud to be one of its success stories. I pursued my master's degree in cyber security at NIT Kurukshetra, and I am currently employed as a security engineer at bp. The comprehensive course and well-structured curriculum provided me with the necessary skills and a strong foundation in security fundamentals, which have been invaluable in my current role. The experienced faculty members played a crucial role in my development. Their insights, drawn from both practical experience and theoretical research, enriched my understanding of the security eld. As a coordinator in the placement cell, I can attest to the institute's unwavering commitment to providing the best placement opportunities for its Utkarsh Upadhyay BP students. The college prioritizes students' career prospects and ensures that they are well-prepared for the job market. I am deeply grateful to everyone who has been part of this incredible journey at NIT Kurukshetra. This institution has not only equipped me with knowledge and skills but has also nurtured my personal growth. I look forward to contributing to the legacy of excellence that NIT Kurukshetra stands for. Professors to impart knowledge have been instrumental in shaping my academic journey. As I step into the next phase of my professional life at Mercedes-Benz Research and Development, I want to convey my profound gratitude to my college for playing an integral role in shaping me into the individual I am today. I am deeply thankful for the foundation and opportunities the college provided, which have prepared me for the challenges and adventures that lie ahead in my career. 19 My time at NIT Kurukshetra has been truly transformative. This institution has played a pivotal role in shaping both my career and personal growth. The exceptional faculty, cutting-edge facilities, and vibrant campus environment have been instrumental in my journey to success. I want to express my heartfelt appreciation, especially to Professor Jitender Kumar Chhabra and the dedicated professors in the Computer Science Department at NIT Kurukshetra. Their unwavering expertise, passion, and commitment to teaching have been paramount in my academic and professional achievements. What sets this department apart is the accessibility of these professors. They are always approachable, TESTIMONIALS D.E. Shaw India Sashwat Mishra NIT Kurukshetra has been the realization of a lifelong dream. This campus, with its lush surroundings and state-of-the-art amenities, became my second home. The Computer Engineering department with its cutting-edge facilities provided a strong academic foundation, and the faculty's unwavering support was invaluable. The challenging curriculum prepared me for the competitive job market. Securing an on-campus placement with Wells Fargo was a moment of immense pride and gratitude. It was the culmination of years of hard work, the nurturing environment, and the guidance and training from the Training and Placement Cell. The placement process was a valuable learning experience, and I felt condent and well-prepared, thanks to the Saransh Gautam Wells Fargo holistic education I received here. As I step into the professional world, I carry not just a degree but also a profound sense of condence and gratitude for this institution. NIT Kurukshetra has not only helped me achieve my career aspirations but has also enriched me with lifelong friendships and cherished memories. A dream come true, indeed. whether for clarications on coursework or guidance for research projects. Their willingness to engage in meaningful discussions and offer invaluable insights has profoundly contributed to my personal and academic growth. Beyond academic growth, NIT Kurukshetra has also enriched my life with enduring friendships, emphasizing the importance of trustworthy companions in one's journey. As I embark on my new adventure at D.E. Shaw India, I am profoundly thankful to this institution and the remarkable individuals I encountered for the invaluable lessons they imparted, knowingly or unknowingly, helping me evolve into a better-rounded individual. I extend my deepest gratitude to my parents and friends for their unwavering support throughout my journey. I carry the pride of my alma mater with me always. Kudos to our fantastic placement cell! They've been incredible throughout. Adapting seamlessly to the online world, they've been our guiding stars. Their insightful feedback has been a cornerstone for our success, and they're always in our corner, hunting down opportunities. Proud to be part of this dynamic team, building our futures together! Bharat Lulla Microsoft OUR PRIDE 20 ATANU CHAKROBORTY, IAS Secretary, Economic Affairs PAWAN MUNJAL Chairman & MD Hero Motocorp S. N. SUBRAHMANYAN CEO & MD Larsen & Toubro SRINI RAJU Entrepreneur & Private Equity Investor RAJEEV KAPOOR Managing Director Copart India Pvt Ltd SANJAY BANGA President, T & D Tata Power GURTEJ SINGH PABBY Vice Admiral, PVSM AVSM VSM Chief of Material, Indian Navy R.K. GUPTA Chairman &MD WAPCOS India Ltd. ANIL KAUL CEO & Co-Founder Absolute Data MD & CEO, Gujarat International Finance Tec-City Co Ltd (GIFT City) AJAY PANDEY RAJESH JAIN Managing Director LPS Bossard Pvt. Ltd. KARTHIK K S CEO AEON Learning Pvt. Ltd. V K BHAWRA, IPS SUDHANSHU VATS CEO, VIACOM 18 Media Private Limited RUCHIR PURI Chief Architect IBM Watson Director General of Police Provisioning & Modernization, Punjab PANKAJ KUKKAL Sr-Director, Qualcomm Corporation BHUVNESH KUMAR, IAS Secretary, Vocational Education & Skill Development, UP GURDEEP SINGH Chairman & MD NTPC Limited Inspector General of Police NRI Affairs & Women Welfare, Punjab GOPAL ANSAL ADESH GUPTA 21 OUR PRIDE ISHWAR SINGH, IPS Chairman & MD Ansal City Chief Executive Ofcer Liberty Shoes SHATRUJEET SINGH KAPOOR IPS Director, Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd. R.K. VIJ, IPS Special Director General of PoliceChhattisgarh SHAILESH RAO Vice President International Operation, Twitter OUR PRIDE 22 SHOBHIT UPPAL AHLUWALIA ANIL BAID ASHWINI KAKKAR BIPUL PATHAK, IAS DEVENDER SINGH RANA, MLA ABHISHEK KUMAR, IAS S.N. SACHDEVA LALIT KUMAR JAIN MAHENDER RANGA, IRS MANGAT RAM SHARMA, IAS BALDEV SETHIA P. K. GUPTA Deputy Managing Director Ahluwalia Contracts India Ltd (ACIL) CEO Pure Software Executive Vice-Chairman Mercury Travels, Mumbai Joint Secretary Ministry of Mines J&K Legislative Assembly Founder Chairman, AAA Vehicleades Joint Collector Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh Vice-Chancellor Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra Chairman & MD Lakshmi Precision Screws Ltd. Joint Secretary Govt. of India Principal Secretary Higher Education Department Tamilnadu Director, Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh Chairman & Managing Director NBCC (India) Ltd. OUR PRIDE Sr. Director – Asia Pacic National Cash Register, Singapore ANKIT RAJESH ARYA, IPS Professor of Public Administration, LBSNAA R. C. KUDAWLA, IPS DGP Training, Chennai MANSI MADAN TRIPATHI Managing Director Shell Lubricants, India RAMNEESH GEER Joint Director, CBI VIJAY MOHAN JAIN, IRS Directorate of International Customs (DIC) ELHI-ROHTAK, GST & CX AMAR NATH, IAS Joint Secretary (Exploration) Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas RAHUL R NAIR, IPS Asstt. Inspector General of Police Thiruvanthapuram SUNIL TAKYAR Managing Director Bechtel India PUNIT SINGH SONI CEO Suki, Ex-CPO Flipkart SAMEER JAIN CEO Net Solutions ARCHANA CHAUDHARY Executive Ofcer & Head Resource Mobilisation & Partnerships UNESCO 23 24 CARDINAL MENTIONS As per the revised undergraduate scheme, the students of all the undergraduate disciplines will undergo 18 weeks to 22 weeks of industrial training/Internship/ Project Work, during their 6th semester. The batch of 2018-22 will be available for internship from January 2021. The industries are requested to make the required changes in their policies so that they may hire interns from NIT Kurukshetra during Jul-Dec 2020 and extend 18 weeks -22 weeks' internship offers to the students, who will be available to join as intern from January 2021 The applied sciences & engineering departments and schools offer 2-year M.Tech. program in various disciplines. As per the postgraduate academic scheme, the students undergo coursework in the rst year and the dissertation/thesis work in the second year. During the dissertation period, students can join industries as intern for a period ranging from 6 to 11 months. Indeed, the organizations are invited to hire interns from a wide pool of UG and PG students. The organizations are also invited to hire interns from a wide pool of PG students. Kurukshetra being the destination of all social, spiritual and political traditions of the ancient times is a prime center of attraction for the people. Different parts of the country are connected to Kurukshetra in the following ways: 100 km away Chandigarh Airport (IXC), Chandigarh. 185 km away Indira Gandhi Int’l Airport, New Delhi. Kurukshetra is connected to all parts of the country through National Highway 44. Important nearby cities are Delhi NCR, Chandigarh, Ambala, Dehradun. Kurukshetra Junction (KKDE) Being a major tourist destination, one can easily get regular trains to Kurukshetra from other major cities like Delhi, Gurgaon, Jaipur, Mumbai, Kolkata. REACH US 25 Placement Coordination Committee (PCC) — UG PLACEMENT TEAM 26 Dr. Modi Pandu Ranga Prasad Faculty In-charge tnp@nitkkr.ac.in +91 97296 62574 Munish Sharma Training & Placement Officer +91 9466287805 tpo@nitkkr.ac.in +91 7426050343 priyankasihag.dba@nitkkr.ac.in Rakesh Sharma Office In-charge +91-98122-80510 tnpofce@nitkkr.ac.in Dr. Priyanka Sihag Associate Faculty In-charge Training and Placement Placement Coordination Committee (PCC) – PG 27 Training and Placement Cell Old Administrative Building NIT Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119 +91-1744-233302 +91-1744-233303 +91-1744-238050 tnpofce@nitkkr.ac.in PHONE ADDRESS FAX ONLINE