URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Notification-Regarding-Internal-Reappear-Examination-for-AugSept-2025-Examination-Session.pdf
Title: Notification-Regarding-Internal-Reappear-Examination-for-AugSept-2025-Examination-Session.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 918
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA (ACADEMIC SECTIO August 1, 2025 No. Acad./25l lo Copy to: NOTICE The senate in its 5oth meetinS held on 25.07.2023 yide agerda item No. s 50,05 approved relaxation in the Academic Rules for promotio; to higher semester of B.Tech. programs. As per Suidelines No (iiJ approved Ly tt u S"nut", the examination of Odd Semester courses (both internal & external) will be held in Odd semester and the examination of Even semester courses [both internal & externalJ will be held in Even Semester tespectively. The Senate also approved that a student is allowed to apply for maximum 6llos' of ."rpp""i iourses (internal and/or eiiernal). This decision of the senate was made effective from academic session 2023-24 for all batches As per above decision of the senate, student will not be allowed to appear in the examinatlons for more than N+6 courses in any semester, where'N' is the total no. ofcourses ofthe current semester the student is studying in and 6 is the maximum number of reappear courses (internal and/or external)' Further, the competent Authority has also allowed the students ofB,Tech. programs admitted prior to A Y' 2OZ3-24 to appeir for reappear examination in odd semester for cources offered in even semester and vice-versa vide letter No. Acad.l2023/7369 dated 0lstSeptember, 2023' Accordingly, the students having re-appears in sessional component of courses of odd & Even Semesters are -f,"."ty i"?,i.."a to apply for ,""rrionii l-prov"-"nt of Odd & Even Sem-ester courses [Except 2023 Batch onwaids of B.Tech. piogramsl in the presiribed sessional improvement form subject to not completion of maximum duration or tie proiram. rney are required to submit sessional improvement form separately for odd & Even Semesters at Siud;nt's Hel; Desk oi through email (reappear-exam@nitkkr'ac in) along with self-attested photocopy of Result Notifications [applicable from 2018 to 2024 batches)' Theeligiblestudentswhoareinterestedtoappearinsessionalimprovementofodd&Evensemestercourses rn"V "ipfv on prescribed sessional improvement form [copy enclosed] strictly on or before 0S 00 pm' 08.09.2025 (MondaY). It is to be noted that after 08.09 2025 (Monday), no request for permission to appear in sessional improvement in Odd & Even Semester courses in this session will be entertained' The cut lists for even and odd semester sessional improvement examinees will be sent to the respective uon.TScttoot Coordinators before start of 1sr sessional iD Odd Semester of Academic Year 2025'26 (t e' before 15.09.20251. The HoDs/school coordinators are requested to ensure that sessional test for Odd Semester courses may also be conducted before the last Calendars ofall UG & PG programs for this semester. This is for information and further nece6sary action, ifrequired improvement exams and make-uP date of teaching as Per Academic 1. 2, 3. 4. A.R to Director for kind information of the llon'ble Director' Heads of all the Departments/School Coordinators All Deans Prof. l/C ICCNJ for uploading on institute website n".rlty rfc fs*".initions) ivith a request to send updated list ofthe students ofB'Tech-2018 to 2024 b;tches forverification oftheir re_appears status in sessional components Chiefwarden (Boys & Girls) circulate this notice among allthe hostels' Dean (Academicl for kind information Jr. Ass,stant to Registrar for kind infornration ofthe Registrar' 6. 7. B, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA CURRENT SEMESTER Roll tiio i ACADEMIC SESSION: 20 "20 Name: Programme/ Spgcialization: Branch: l\rob. No. Email lD Depertment Seclibn Student Type Regular / Exstudent (Plz tick applicable option) Sessional lmprovement Semester: _ List of Courses having reappear in Sessional (Theory-T/Practical-P) I wish to appear in Sessional lmprovement in the following Course(s). I have enclosed seltattested photocopy of the result notification or email copy of the verification by the Exam Cell as a p.oof along with this form. No Course Code PI T Department Name ( Course Offered by) No Coutse Code PI T Department Name ( Course Offered by) 1 2 5 3 6 I have verilied that: - a) The student has not completed maximum du.ation of the programme in this semester. (lvlaximum ._Duration for B. Tech Programmes isByears, M. Tech Programmes is 5 years, l\,48A programme is 4 year and l\,4C4 programmes is 6 year) b) The course codes are verified from Dl\,4Cs or documents/records of Exam Cell. The student may ba allowod to appeat in the sessional cofiponents of the (No.) courses as above. Help Desk Ofticiat HoD/Co-ordinator of School - Supdt (Academic) Faculty Uc (Academic) Course Co-ordinator/ Faculty taking sessional improvement N.slgl 1) The studenl must fillthe form and enclose the documentary proof of re-appear in the sessionalcomponents ofthe courses (applicable for 2016 batch onwards only) and submit the sessional improvemonl form al least one week before start ofthe l"rsessionalat Help oesk and collectihe same from Help Desk only afier verificalion and approval fromAcademic Section. TheAcademic Section in any casewillnotgive permission for sessional improvement afler 1"'sessionat areover. 2) The student has to till separate form for each semesterand in case ifhe/she has more than 6 reappear in sessional componenls in any semester, he has to fill additional form for lhal semester. 3) The student should submit self-altested pholocopies of this form to respective faculties taking his sessional after gelting approvalfrom theAcademic Sectron and the concerned HoD/Co-ordinalors ofthe school 4) Theteachers are requested toensure thalthe student has permrssion beforethey allow the studentrn the sessional improvement exam. They will also keep self-altested copy ofthrs form submitted by the student for lheir record. The culljst in respect of sessional re-appearwillbe provided to the respective departmenis/schools Sr. No Course Code PI T Department Name ( Course Offered bvl Sr. No Course Code PI T Department Name ( Course Offered by) 1 4 2 5 3 6