URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/STC_broucher_ASCOEE-2025.pdf
Title: STC_broucher_ASCOEE-2025.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 1013
--------------------------------------------------
KURUKSHETRA Kurukshetra, which has religious and historical significance, is referred to as DHARMA-KSHETRA. The Mahabharata battle took place here, and Lord Shree Krishna taught the "KARMA" doctrine found in the sacred text known as the "Shrimad Bhagwad Gita." It is one of the most important pilgrimage sites, drawing followers year-round. Kurukshetra has good rail, air (Delhi 160 km and Chandigarh 80 km), and road (NH1, connecting Delhi-Chandigarh-Amritsar- Jammu) connections. The Pipli Bus stop on NH-44 is approximately 11 kilometers from the NIT Kurukshetra campus, while the Kurukshetra train station is around 6 km away. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA Established in 1963, NIT Kurukshetra was earlier known as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra. On June 26, 2002, it was granted NIT status as a Deemed University. With a yearly enrollment of over 1500 students, the Institute provides several courses in B.Tech., M.Tech., MBA and MCA, and Ph.D. disciplines. Additionally, the institute offers top-notch facilities for cutting-edge research in the rapidly developing fields of science, Technology, and Engineering. DEPARTMENT of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (EED), NIT KURUKSHETRA The Department of Electrical Engineering offers courses such as B. Tech, M. Tech, and Ph.D. The B. Tech program is run with several elective courses. The department has three M. Tech courses with specialization in Control Systems, Power Systems and Power Electronics and Drives, and offers Ph.D. in different areas, evolving innovations and developments in all disciplines of Electrical Engineering. Recently, an Advanced Control Systems Lab & Drone technologies lab with modern equipment has been established. The significant research areas are Robust Control, Adaptive control, nonlinear systems, Instrumentation, Signal Processing, Reliability, System Engineering & Machine learning, etc. RESOURCE PERSONS  Experts may be invited from Industry/R&D organizations/foreign universities/institutes.  Faculty members from IITs/N ITs/IIITs/ Central & State Universities. ORGANIZING COMMITTEE PATRON Prof. (Dr.) B. V. Ramana Reddy, Director, NIT Kurukshetra Co-PATRON Dr. Jyoti Ohri, Professor and Head, Department of EED, NIT Kurukshetra COURSE CONVENOR Dr. Yash Pal Professor, Department of EED, NIT Kurukshetra COURSE COORDINATORS Dr. Anil Kumar Dahiya, Associate Professor, Department of EED, NIT Kurukshetra & Dr. Rajesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of EED, NIT Kurukshetra IMPORTANT DATES  Last date for Registration: 25.10.2025  Notification of Selection (through website or email): 26.10.2025 Self-financed One-week Short Term Course On (28th October 2025- 01st November 2025) (Lectures will be held in evening in Online mode tentatively starting at 4:30 PM) Organized by Department of Electrical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Kurukshetra-136119, Haryana, India Applications of Soft Computing & Optimization in Electrical Engineering (ASCOEE-2025) COURSE OBJECTIVES The objectives of this Self-financed One-week Short Term Course (STC) are to provide participants with foundational knowledge and exposure to soft computing techniques such as artificial neural networks, fuzzy logic, hybrid models and various optimization methods such as genetic algorithms, PSO etc. and other evolutionary optimization methods and their applications in Electrical Engineering and related fields. These soft computing techniques offer powerful tools for solving complex, nonlinear, and uncertain problems commonly encountered in electrical engineering domains such as power systems, power electronics and control systems etc. The course aims to bridge the gap between traditional analytical approaches and modern intelligent solutions, enabling faculty, researchers, and students to design more adaptive, robust, and efficient electrical systems. COURSE CONTENTS The course aims to address the following issues related to soft computing and optimization and their applications, but is not limited to them. 1. Introduction to Soft Computing and Optimization Techniques 2. Soft computing-based modeling & control of nonlinear dynamical systems. 3. Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), fuzzy systems etc. hybrid models and their applications. 4. Evolutionary and Swarm Optimization Techniques 5. Various learning algorithms and Quantum computing, Machine learning 6. Case studies involving soft computing methods in solving various engineering problems WHO SHOULD ATTEND? Faculty members/ research scholars/ PG students from academic institutes approved by the AICTE/ UGC/ MHRD, and Scientists/ Engineers working in Private/ Public/ Govt organizations/ industries, etc., can attend the course. It is an interdisciplinary course; participants from the following backgrounds: Electrical, Electronics, Instrumentation, Computers, and AI/ML Engineering are encouraged to attend. REGISTRATION FEE (Through SBI collect) Participant’s Category Registration Fee* UG/PG Students/Research Scholars 1000/- Faculty 1500/- Industry/ R&D 2000/- * Registration fee is non-refundable. Registration fee includes course e-certificate. Selection of the participants will be on a first-come-first-served basis. Registration Process (Mandatory) Registration fee is to be paid through SBI Collect. The steps are as follows: 1. https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect/ 2. Under “Select categories” select “Educational Institutions”. 3. Write in search box: DIRECTOR NIT KURUKSHETRA 4. Under payment category select “ASCOEE 2025”. 5. Select your “Participant category” and select the corresponding registration fee amount (and then for remaining categories select Rs 0) and complete the remaining steps. 6. Please write the short name of STC as ASCOEE 2025 in remarks during online SBI Collect payment and save a copy of payment receipt. Google form to be filled by participants (Mandatory) The candidates/participants are required to fill the following Google form: https://forms.gle/S9LYw4nHc86hBBsk7 In the above Google form, basic details related to participants, transactions details are to be filled and the copy of registration fee receipt and the signed registration form (Annexure A is attached on the next page) is to be uploaded. It is mandatory to fill the Google form. The above Google form (complete in all aspects) needs to be submitted online through above Google form by 25.10.2025 CORRESPONDENCE Address: ASCOEE-2025, Electrical Engineering Department, NIT Kurukshetra – 136119, Haryana, India Email: yashpal@nitkkr.ac.in; anildau@nitkkr.ac.in; rajeshmahindru23@nitkkr.ac.in Contact: +91-9416950545, +91-9896003033, +91-9971252729 Annexure A REGISTRATION FORM (to be uploaded through Google form) Short Term Course on Applications of Soft Computing & Optimization in Electrical Engineering (ASCOEE-2025) 28th October 2025- 01st November 2025, Department of Electrical Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra (Lectures will be held in evening in Online mode tentatively starting at 4:30 PM) Name (in BLOCK LETTER with title): Sex (M/F): Date of Birth: (dd/mm/yyyy): Organization: Designation: Address for correspondence: Mobile: E-mail: Qualification: Category (Please Tick only one from the following and strike out remaining): Student (UG/PG Students/Research Scholars)/ Faculty/ Industry or R&D Payment Details Transaction ID/ Reference ID: Date of Payment: Amount (in Rs): Signature of applicant (with date):