URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Vol-3-issue-2-July-2018.pdf
Title: R & D NEWS LETTER' 19.cdr
Description: 
Word Count: 2481
--------------------------------------------------
National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Prof. Brahmjit Singh Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 Research Research Research & & & Development Development Development Newsletter Newsletter Newsletter The R & D Newsletter of NIT Kurukshetra aims to disseminate the highlights of the wide spectrum of ongoing research activities in the Institute. During the span of autumn semester of the academic session 2017-18, the Institute has taken long strides towards creation of research facilities, industry connects, and outcomes in the domain of academic research and technological solutions to the problems of the society. The Research and Development Cell established as a separate entity commences its functioning w.e.f. the ϔinancial year 2018-19. The Cell aims to facilitate the smooth and expedited functioning of the submission of the projects and consultancy proposals to the funding agencies, and execution of the sanctioned projects. "Param Shavak" the supercomputing facility has been put into operation providing the entire research fraternity with huge computing power for their computationally intensive work. Eﬀective innovation partnership amongst the industries and the academia is equally important for R & D growth. MoUs were entered with ϔinancial institutions for joint working on IT infrastructure security and collaboration with digital platforms for the delivery of advanced courses spanning data sciences and business analytics by the industry experts. We are grateful to the students, faculty and staﬀ for their inputs and feedback. We look forward to hearing from you, From the Desk of Dean Research and Consultancy (Institution of National Importance) Sponsor: DBT, Ministry of Science & Technology, GoI Dr. Amilan Jose. D Department of Chemistry Email : amilanjosenit@nitkkr.ac.in The aim of this project is to synthesize opƟmized ruthenium-based nitric oxide (Ru-NO) complexes incorporated in self-assembled/polymerizable nanoscale vesicles that release NO upon irradiaƟon with light. In contrast to simple NO-releasing molecules, self-assembled nanovesicles incorporated molecules might be advantageous due to their monodisperse nature, facile preparaƟon, site speciﬁcity, and the degradaƟon products can stay with vesicles surface. We also propose that NO could be released upon inducƟon with visible/NIR light, it is an important requirement for physiological applicaƟons. Photoinduced release of therapeutic Nitric Oxide from functionalized self-assembled nanovesicles Development of Highly Sensitive Colorimetric and Fluorescent Moisture Sensors based on Small Molecules, Chemically Modified Paper and Electrospun Nanofibrous Materials Sponsor: Science and Engineering Research Board Moisture is an important impurity in organic solvents, pharmaceuƟcal products, foodstuﬀs and petroleum-based fuels. Therefore, the determinaƟon of moisture in chemicals, food products and drug substance are one of the most important analyƟcal measurements. However most of the currently available and tradiƟonal methods have the disadvantages of the use of toxic chemicals, long experimental duraƟon, lack of conƟnuous monitoring, slow response Ɵme and need of skilled person, these makes them those methods not suitable for all the cases. To overcome these disadvantages in this project we propose to develop a simple easy detecƟon method such as colorimetric and ﬂuorescence sensor (opƟcal) for the detecƟon and determining of trace level of water content in organic solvents and other materials. Feasibility of Development of Spectrally selective absorbing materials for laser absorbing coatings Sponsor: DRDO In this project to deceive the laser targeƟng of crucial equipment by enemy, feasibility is to be examined for the idenƟﬁcaƟon of suitable materials for laser absorpƟons in NIR wavelength regions; synthesis of idenƟﬁed materials and their laboratory level evaluaƟon for laser absorbing properƟes, and opƟmizaƟon of synthesis process for such materials suitable for bulk scale producƟon. In addiƟon to development of IR absorbing materials, for achieving the reducƟon in reﬂectance, it is also planned to create a physical gradient or geometric transiƟon absorbers on the IR absorbing coaƟng. AbsorpƟon materials are comprehensively employed to deceive the energy seeking devices. These materials have the advantages of longer durability and low cost. Dr. Yashashchandra Dwivedi Department of Physics Email: yashjidwivedi@nitkkr.ac.in RECENTLY COMMNECED RESEARCH PROJECTS Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 2 Nanomaterials for stable and high efficiency inorganic-organic perovskite- perovskite tandem solar cells Sponsor: CSIR Dr. Ashok Kumar Department of Physics Email: ashokku@nitkkr.ac.in The direcƟon of research towards applicaƟon of pervoskite material in solar cell has resulted in the development of organic-inorganic mixed/ hybrid perovskite materials for the high eﬃciency solar cell. Pervoskite materials have general formula ABX3 in which A and B are caƟons (A is larger than B in size) and X is an anion. The typical structure of perovskite is shown in Figure 1. Figure 2. 2D and 3D models of the perovskite structure. The purple molecule is the A element, the black/blue is the B element, and the yellow is the X atom. Organic-inorganic hybrid perovskite exhibits excellent opƟcal and electronic properƟes. The small exciton binding energy of these perovskites compared to that of organic semiconductors, as well as the large carrier diﬀusion length of 100 to 1000 nm and lifeƟme of ~100 ns are beneﬁcial for light harvesƟng. The organic-inorganic halide Design, Synthesis and Optoelectronic Properties of Squaraine and Croconine based Functional Organic Materials perovskite based solar cells have been the focus of intense research over the past few years. Building tandem structure is an eﬀecƟve strategy to enhance the photovoltaic performance of a solar cell. Sponsor: CSIR The purpose of this project is to improve the optoelectronic properƟes of squaraine and croconine based funcƟonal organic materials.These materials are having high interacƟon with light and show sharp and intense absorpƟon in visible to near infrared region, which had made the signiﬁcant contribuƟon to the development of electronic devices of modern items. Further, optoelectronic properƟes of squaraine and croconines are depending on nature of bonding mode in the molecule (C- C / C-N bonding). Keeping in the view of bonding mode of these molecules, the research will be focused on designing and synthesis ofC-N bondingsquaraine and croconine dyes.Optoelectronic properƟes will be studied for the synthesized molecules Dr. ChettiPrabhakar Department of Chemistry Email: chetti@nitkkr.ac.in Figure 1 Figure 2 Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 3 ACADEMIC RESEARCH WORK PUBLISHED IN HIGH IMPACT JOURNALS 1. "Vesicles funcƟonalized with CO-releasing molecule (CORM) for light-induced CO delivery", ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2018, 10 (16), pp 14214–14220 (IF: 8.097) Authors: Rahul Sakla, D. Amilan Jose 2. "SelecƟve DetecƟon of H S by Copper Complex Embedded in Vesicles through Metal Indicator Displacement Approach" 2 ACS Sens., 2018, 3 (6), pp 1142–1148. (IF: 5.711) Authors: Rahul Kaushik, Rahul Sakla, Amrita Ghosh, G.Tamil Selvan, P. Mosae Selvakumar , Amilan Jose 3. "A predicƟve model for cloud systems", Future GeneraƟon Computer Systems, Elsevier Vol 81, 2018, pp. 41-52; IF: 4.639 Authors: Jitender Kumar, Ashutosh Kumar Singh 4. "ObservaƟon of two-way mulƟchannel interacƟon in Dy:Eu: ", Dyes and Pigments Elsevier; January Bi SiO nanocrystals 2 5 2018, (IF: ~3.77) Authors: Pushpa Kumari, Y. Dwivedi HONORS AND AWARDS (I) INSTITUTION OF ENGINEERS (IEI) YOUNG ENGINEERS AWARD 2018 Dr. Joy Prakash Misra, Assistant Professor Mechanical Engineering Dept., was awarded with Young Engineers Award by InsƟtuƟon of Engineers rd at its 33 NaƟonal ConvenƟon of ProducƟon Engineers held on May 19, 2018 at Odisha State Center, Bhubaneswar for his extraordinary contribuƟon in the ﬁeld of ProducƟon Engineering (ii) Prof. Ashwani Kumar, Electrical Engineering Dept. received presƟgious POSOCO Power Awards (Feb. 2018) for guiding the following M. Tech. dissertaƟons adjudged to be the best among Master's Category in top 25 thesis in India: (a) CongesƟon Management using Demand Response Program, Ms. SmriƟ Singh (b) OpƟmal Scheduling of Energy Storage System, BhaskarjyoƟ Das th (iii) Prof. Ashutosh Kumar Singh, Department of Computer ApplicaƟon received the award of Best Oral Presenter in 7 InternaƟonal Conference on CommunicaƟon and Network Security (ICCNS) held in Tokyo, Japan. FELLOWSHIPS (i) German Academic Exchange Service DAAD under the RISE Worldwide Program Project Title: A MulƟlingual SemanƟc Web Portal for the Domain of India Biodiversity Name of Intern: Ms Anastasiia Kysliak. AﬃliaƟon of Intern: Bachelor student, Germany Georg-August-Universität Göƫngen, (II) THE RAMAN-CHARPAK FELLOWSHIP Sh. Rahul Kaushik, a Ph.D. scholar with the Department of Chemistry was awarded Raman-Charpak Fellowship from the French Centre for PromoƟon of Advanced Research (IFCPAR/CEFIPR). He undertook his research work at Paris Diderot University, France for a period of six months. Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 4 TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER SOLAR THERMAL CHULHA FOR DAY AND NIGHT INDOOR COOKING Fig.1 Photograph of Solar Chulha Fig.2 NIT Kurukshetra being honored at ONGC by the Hon'ble Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Sh. Dharmenda Pradhan Ji The System uses a rotary gear pump to take cold ﬂuid back to receiver. “Night Chulha” stores heat during day in non-cooking hours and use it during night Ɵme. Oil temperature up to 200ºC can be achieved in Day Chulha which meets the boiling, steaming and frying requirements of a household. On the other hand, Night Chulha can provide the temperature up to 120ºC with heat storage. WORKSHOPS INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP ON SUSTAINABLE ENERGY, POWER AND PROPULSION-2018 “The world has enough for everyone's need, but not enough for everyone's greed.”, said, the father of our naƟon, Mahatma Gandhi once. This quote is a philosophical tesƟmonial to the fact that we can survive with the resources we have rather than stripping the nature oﬀ its energy sources which took billions of years to form in its womb. Aimed at moving towards a sustainable future, a novel approach was adopted by the scienƟﬁc fraternity in the form of an InternaƟonal Workshop on “Sustainable Energy Power and Propulsion.” The inaugural th ceremony of the 9 iteraƟon of this workshop took place in the Jubilee Hall- NaƟonal InsƟtute of Technology Kurukshetra on the th pleasant late evening of 18 March 2018. One-Day Workshop on Siemens Centre of Excellence for Industry Relevant Skill Development (March 10, 2018) In order to bridge the gap between academia and industry, NIT Kurukshetra has taken an iniƟaƟve to establish a Centre of Excellence equipped with state-of-the-art faciliƟes for imparƟng industry relevant skill development training to the students of engineering programmes including degree, diploma and vocaƟonal courses as well as industry personal parƟcularly from SMEs. The center aims to link educaƟon system to industry through Industry Linked Learning Model. The objecƟve of the workshop was to create awareness among the academic insƟtuƟons/colleges about faciliƟes therein, types and modaliƟes of training programs and contents, and seeking valued inputs from the stakeholders to make the center as the right plaƞorm for the students to aƩain industry relevant skills and hence enhanced employability and entrepreneurship opportuniƟes Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 5 CONFERENCES ORGANIZED th The Department of Business AdministraƟon organized 30 Annual Conference of Haryana Economic AssociaƟon on 10.03.2018. Brainstorming sessions were conducted to deliberate on the major issues and challenges of Indian economy. Role of modern agricultural technologies in eﬃcient energy consumpƟon in Haryana and Dairy Farming as a means to eradicate agricultural farm crises were discussed at length and were highly appreciated by all presentees. Prof. Mahesh Siwach, President Haryana Economic AssociaƟon emphasized on the importance of intellectual discussion and evolving promising soluƟons to the problems being faced by Indian economy through such plaƞorms. On the occasion of valedictory funcƟon, Prof. Rajender Kumar shared his vision of modern economy. One-Day NaƟonal Conference on Molecules and Material Technology was organized by the Department of Chemistry on 17.02.2018. The inaugural funcƟon was graced by Prof. M.N. Maurya, IIT Roorkee as Chief Guest and Prof. (Mrs.) Kiran Singh, Kurukshetra University Kurukshetra, Guest of Honor. Dr. SaƟsh Kumar, Director NIT Kurukshetra in his presidenƟal address stressed on the need of collaboraƟon between academia and industry towards developing economical and sustainable materials. th The 6 NaƟonal Conference on Nano-Science and InstrumentaƟon Technology was organized by the Department of Physics on 30 March 2018. Dr. R.K. Sinha Director CSIO Chandigarh as the Chief Guest on the occasion of inaugural funcƟon highlighted the importance of Nano-Science in the development of eﬃcient photonics. The Guest of Honor, Shri Naresh Kumar Director SASE Chandigarh elaborated on the challenges being faced by Indian Amy due to snow avalanche and the technological soluƟons being developed to overcome those by the SASE Lab. Dr. R.K. Kotnala ScienƟﬁc Consultant and Former Chief ScienƟst CSIR-NPL New Delhi showcased his patented hydroelectricity cell which was very well appreciated by one and all. th 30 Annual Conference of Haryana Economic AssociaƟon (10/03/2018) Molecules & Material Technology (17.02.2018) Nanoscience and InstrumentaƟon Technology (March 29-30, 2018) Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 6 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU) Towards increasing the access of educaƟon to the larger secƟon of the society and hence scaling up the GER in the country, NIT Kurukshetra has been commiƩed to and has taken various steps in this direcƟon. In addiƟon, The InsƟtute has commenced to leverage the digital plaƞorms to run online courses parƟcularly in the area of emerging technologies including Big Data, Data Science and AnalyƟcs, ArƟﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning. In its endeavor, the InsƟtute has signed a memorandum of understanding with AEON Learning Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore on 01.08.2018. This collaboraƟon has made provision to engage industry experts as resource person for the delivery of the instrucƟons. To scale up the industry interface and engaging the industry personnel in the teaching and learning process in the insƟtute, a MoU was signed with M/s. Conserve Infotech Private Limited, Jaipur on 10.08.2018. The MoU envisages the expert lectures covering speciﬁc topics in modular formats relevant to contemporary industrial needs. This collaboraƟon aims to give exposure of emerging technologies to the students and enhance their employability. The training programme also envisages to contribute to ﬁnancial sustainability. Provisioning of the security in ﬁnancial transacƟons has become the most important technical challenge for trust building of the people in cashless economy and making (digital India) successful. NIT Kurukshetra has signed a MoU with HDFC Bank, which aims to carry out in-depth study of the security policies and their vulnerabiliƟes implemented on digital plaƞorms being used in banking insƟtuƟons parƟcularly in HDFC banking network. The students of the InsƟtute will get the opportunity to have experienƟal learning on real-life data networks and proposing the possible soluƟons to strengthen the security of ﬁnancial transacƟons. Vol. 3 | Issue 2 | July 2018 7 www. nitkkr.ac.in DEAN, RESEARCH & CONSULTANCY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA-136119 (Haryana) Tel: +91-01744-233221 | Email: deanrc@nitkkr.ac.in Queries related to research and consultancy may please be addressed to: Editor-in-Chief: Prof. Brahmjit Singh Dean, Research and Consultancy Editor: Dr Anurag Gaur Faculty Coordinator Param Shavak: “The Supercomputer in a Box” Solution for HPC The High Performance CompuƟng (HPC) facility consists of mulƟ-Tera Flops compuƟng power, NVIDIA accelerator cards, and Deep Learning GPU system. The soluƟon helps to aggregate the compuƟng resources, storage, and graphics capabiliƟes. This facility provides the key resource for high end educaƟonal and research purpose. The HPC unit enables the students and faculty to solve large- scale computaƟonal simulaƟon, modeling and data intensive problems. The facility is envisaged to develop high performance compuƟng aware human resource for addressing the complex challenges of the next wave of enabling technologies parƟculalry AI and Machine Learning.