URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/Cyber-hygiene-and-Security-Awareness-PPT.pdf
Title: Cyber-hygiene-and-Security-Awareness-PPT.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 1508
--------------------------------------------------
Emerging Security Threats & Safety Mitigations • Hitain Singh, NIC Cyber Security Objectives 1 Cyber Hygiene 2 Emerging Security Threats 3 Cyber security Precautions 4 Agenda Cyber Security Objectives • Data confidentiality • Assures that private or confidential information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals • Privacy • Assures that individuals control or influence what information related to them may be collected and stored and by whom and to whom that information may be disclosed Confidentiality • Data integrity • Assures that information and programs are changed only in a specified and authorized manner • System integrity • Assures that a system performs its intended function in an unimpaired manner, free from unauthorized manipulation of the system Integrity • Assures that systems work promptly and service is not denied to authorized users Availability 4 What is Cyber Security & Threat in Cyber Security? • Cyber Security refers to technologies, processes, and practices designed to protect assets (networks, devices, programs and data) from attack, theft, damage, modification or unauthorized access. • Cyber Security can also be defined as the set of principles and practices designed to protect our computing resources and online information against threats. • Cyber security threat can be broadly classified into three categories: threats to confidentiality, threats to integrity, and threats to availability. These categories correspond to the three main objectives of cybersecurity, often referred to as the CIA Triad (Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability). 5 Threats to Confidentiality These threats involve unauthorized access to information. They aim to breach privacy by accessing sensitive data without consent. Examples of such threats include: • Phishing Attacks: These attacks aim to trick users into divulging sensitive information, such as login credentials or financial information. • Spyware and Keyloggers: These software programs are designed to collect and transmit personal or organizational data from a computer without the owner's knowledge or consent. 6 Threats to Integrity These threats involve unauthorized modification of information. The goal is to manipulate or destroy data to disrupt the organization's operations or credibility. Examples include: • Data Breaches: These occur when an attacker gains unauthorized access to data in a system or database and alters it with malicious intent. • Malware Attacks: Rootkits, Logic bombs, Trojan Horse, credential stealers can change or delete data on a system, disrupting its normal function. • Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attacks: Attackers can intercept and alter communications between two parties without their knowledge. 7 Threats to Availability These threats prevent legitimate users from accessing information or systems. The goal is often to disrupt operations or services. Examples include: • Denial-of-Service (DoS) or Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) Attacks: These attacks overwhelm a system’s/Infra resources, making it unable to handle legitimate requests and thus rendering it unavailable to users. • Ransomware Attacks: These attacks encrypt data on a system and demand a ransom to decrypt it, effectively denying the owner access to their own data. 8 Why is security so hard? • The complexity of ICT including software/applications and networks • Increased Internet and AI usage • User expectation and sense of responsibility. • Lack of awareness of threats and risks • Social engineering • Defense is inherently more expensive • Offense only needs the weakest link • Ample cracking tools 9 Govt Email configured in 3rd party Apps or Services (IMAP/POP3) Use of Email services in compromised machines/mobiles, or through 3rd party VPNs, Proxy Services Lack of User Awareness Attackers by-passing Geo-fencing, Encrypted Attachments, Phishing Mails sent through compromised Govt Email lDs Sharing and use of same of Credentials Downloading links or attachments hosted on external sites Key Challenges Use of Obsolete OS and applications. Targeted attacks + APTs and Lateral Movements Use of Pirated & Free Softwares, toolbars, download managers, Remote Admin tools, …etc Monitoring and Compliance Key Challenges Lack of Uniform AV/ Endpoint solutions, Hardening and access policies Most Common Attacks & Surface Denial of Service (DoS and DDoS) Application-Layer attacks Social Engineering Misconfigurations ← → Lack of encryption Missing access restrictions Weak permissions Lack of compliance program Improper data handling and retention →Insecure policy settings →Poor IAM controls Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attack In the most common example of Denial-of- Service (DoS) attacks, an attacker uses a network of hijacked computers. This network is used to flood the target site with phony server requests, leaving no bandwidth for legitimate traffic. TARGET SERVER Types of Cyber Attacks Phishing SQL injection A Ransomware Malware Man in the Middle attack Ο DDOS Zero-day exploit DNS Tunneling DoS and DDoS attack XSS attacks Cryptojacking Social engineering Hacking Evolution – Website Defacements The CyberAttack Lifecycle Reconnaissance Weaponization and Delivery Exploitation Installation Command and Control Actions on the Objective Preventive Controls Reactive Controls Phishing – Spam – Social Engineering NIC-CERT How Phishing Attack Works? APT Case Study Phishing Mail Phishing Mail Phishing Mail Phishing Mail sent to Govt. User Phishing Mail Phishing Mail sent to Govt. User Hi user,Your Mail Box needs to be Re- verified to avoid Shutdown.You have less than 48hrs.Use the link below to continue using this service CLICK TO CONTINUE https://e70mnsno3prm8kl5zg16bg- on.drv.tw/ddaas/ Thanks, Phishing Mail sent to Govt. User Phishing Mail sent to Govt. User Phishing Mail sent to Govt. User Beware : Phishing Mail Common Traits ✓Commonly used keywords in phishing mail subject – Pay commission, DA, Arrears, Parichay, VPN, IMPORTANT, UPDATE, PATCH, Upgradation of account, Account suspension, URGENT, Attention, CRASH, INVITATION ✓Check for hyperlinked words and attachments ✓Use of shortened urls ✓Links to files hosted on File Sharing sites/ Cloud storage (ex: google drive, onedrive..etc) ✓Re-direction to external sites ✓Passwords for opening attachments enclosed in mail body ✓Mails sent to multiple recipients, mailing lists, bcc Phishing Mail : What you can Do? 1. Report Phishing Incidents : incident@nic-cert.nic.in / incident@nic.in 2. Don’t open attachments and Don’t click on the links and Don’t Forward Phishing Mails to other users 3. Don’t upload Phishing mail samples or attachments to external sites like Virustotal.com What You Can Do? 1. Cyber hygiene refers to fundamental cybersecurity best practices that an organization's security practitioners and users can undertake. As you have personal hygiene practices to maintain your own health, cyber hygiene best practices help protect the health of your organization's network and assets. 2. Cyber hygiene is about training yourself to form good habits around cybersecurity so that you can stay ahead of cyber threats and online security issues. 3. Building a routine around cyber hygiene will help prevent cybercriminals from causing security breaches or stealing personal information. It will also help you keep up to date with software and operating systems. What is Cyber Hygiene? 6 November 2025 31 Cyber hygiene isn't a one-off event - it's something that has to be practiced regularly. You can create habits by setting automated reminders or adding dates to your calendars for different tasks. These might include scanning for viruses using antivirus software, changing your passwords, keeping apps, software, and operating systems up to date, and wiping your hard drive after backup. Once you get the hang of cyber hygiene, it becomes part of your regular personal cybersecurity routine. Regular routines or habits: How to ensure good cyber hygiene? 6 November 2025 32 • Don't post private information such as home address, private pictures, phone number, or credit card numbers publicly on social media • Review your social media privacy settings and ensure they are set to a level you feel comfortable with. • Avoid quizzes, games, or surveys on social media that ask for sensitive personal information • Take caution regarding the permissions you accept for all the apps you use. • Keep computer and phone locked with a password or PIN • Take care not to disclose private information when using public Wi-Fi • Make sure any online transactions you make are via a secure website - where the URL starts with https:// rather than http:// and there is a padlock icon to the left of the address bar. • Share information about online privacy with family and friends to help keep them safe as well How to ensure good cyber hygiene? 6 November 2025 33 Cyber Security Is Everyone’s Responsibility 6 November 2025 34 NIC CERT Securing Operating System Platform Do You Know ? 83% of all Critical Vulnerabilities published by Microsoft during the last 5 years can be mitigated by using a non-admin User Account Keep your Operating System and Antivirus Updated with latest Patches/Updates 858 Microsoft Product Vulnerabilities were discovered in 2019 Removing admin rights would mitigate 77% of all critical Microsoft vulnerabilities published in 2019 80% of Critical vulnerabilities in Windows Servers could be mitigated by using a non-admin user account. Create a non-admin account in your OS/ System and Use it for day to day activities 100% of critical vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer could be mitigated by using a non- admin User account 80% of Critical Vulnerabilities in Windows 7, 8.1 and 10 could be mitigated by using a non-admin account Don't use any Pirated Softwares or Cracks or Keygens. ... </> Disable Powershell and Remote Desktop Report Security Incident to NIC-CERT: 011-22902400 incident@nic-cert.nic.in https://nic-cert.nic.in NIC-CERT Co-ordination with NIC-CERT 37