URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Proceeding-of-meetings-of-a-Anti-Ragging-committe-squad.pdf
Title: Proceeding-of-meetings-of-a-Anti-Ragging-committe-squad.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 1056
--------------------------------------------------
OFFICE OF THE DEAN (STUDENTS' WELFARE) NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA No. Dean (SW)/24/282 PROCEEDINGS OF MEETINGS Date: 13-08-2024 In reference to the office letters no. Dean (SW)/261 and Dean (SW)/262 dated 5.8.2024, meetings of Anti Ragging Committee (ARC) and Anti Ragging Squad (ARS) were held on 08.08.2024 at 4:30 PM and 5:00 PM respectively in the Board Room of the institute. Followings were present in the Anti-Ragging Committee meeting: 1. Prof. 8. V. Ramana Reddy, Director 2. Prof. Dixit Garg, Dean (Students' Welfare) 3. Dr. Arvind Sharma, Chief Warden ( Boys Hostels) 4. Prof. Lilie Diwan, Chief Warden (Girls Hostel) 5. Sh. G.R. Samantaray, Registrar. • 6. Dr. R.D. Sharma, NGO Representative. 7. Sh. Tarsem Mittal, NGO Representative. 8. 2nd Year, Student Representative 9. 3rd Year, Parent Representative . 10. Dr. Rajiv Verma, Associate Dean (SW) cum Chairman, Proctorial Board Prof. R.P. Chauhan, Dean (Academic), Sh. Saurabh Chowdhary/Sh. Vinod Chaudhary (Media Representatives) could not attend the meeting. Followings were present in the Anti-Ragging Squad meeting: 1. Prof. 8. V. Ramana Reddy, Director 2. Prof. Dixit Garg, Dean (Students' Welfare) 3. Dr. Arvind Sharma, Chief Warden ( Boys Hostels) 4. Prof. Lilie Diwan, Chief Warden (Girls Hostel) 5. Dr. Y. Dwivedi, Deputy Chief Warden (Boys Hostels) 6. Dr. Moh it Dua, Deputy Chief Warden (Boys Hostels) 7. Dr. M. Senthil Kumar, Member, Proctorial Board 8. Dr. Pradeep Kumar, Member, Proctorial Board 9. Dr. Bharti Sinha, Member, Proctorial Board 10. Prof. Jaideep Gupta, Professor 1/C (Security & Surveillance) 11. Sh. Ajit Yadav, Security Officer 12. Dr. Rajiv Verma, Associate Dean (SW) cum Chairman Proctorial Board Proceedings of the meetings and decision taken are as under: 1. 2. 3. At the outset, the Dean (Students' Welfare) welcomed the Hon'ble Director and all other members present in the meetings. The Hon'ble Director expressed his seriousness and concern of Anti-Ragg,·ng . . . measures ,n the 1nst1tute. Dean (Students' Welfare) presented the details of the Anti-Raggin M taken and to be taken in upcom. d . . . 9 easures already mg ays in the 1nst1tute . P.T.O 4. 5. ·t Staff along with F acuity and Staff Members will be actively Hostel staff and Secun Y . . . . . . per the directions of competent authority (Actions t involved in Ant1-Raggmg Duties as . o d (Boys Hostel), Chief Warden (Girls Hostel) and be taken by Chief War en Professor In-Charge (Security and Surveillance). . ff . 11 t per the instructions received from the Institute authorities and Hostel Sta w, ac as I th •t· As discussed in the meeting, additional security guards will be Hoste au on ,es. . deployed as per the requirements of the Chief Warden (Boys Hostel) and Chief Warden (Girls Hostel) and they wi\l act as per the instructions received from the Institute authorities, Wardens, Chief Warden (Boys), Chief Warden (Girls) and Professor I/C (Security and Surveillance) (Actions to be taken by Chief Warden (Boys Hostel), Chief Warden (Girls Hostel) and Professor In-Charge (Security and Surveillance). 6. It was discussed and resolved that the Dean (Academic) will send the list of students admitted in 1st year (2024) to the office of the Dean (Students' Welfare) at the earliest (Action to be taken by Dean (Academic)). 7. It was also informed by the Dean (Student's Welfare) that the faculty mentors for 1st year students have been assigned and the same have been notified. Each faculty mentor is assigned a subsection of maximum 20 students of 1st year B.Tech programmes. The Chairman, Proctorial Board will assign one member of Students' Council with each subsection. (Actions to be taken by Chairman, Proctorial Board). 8. Visit to the institute area of various 1st year students' groups will be coordinated by Dr. Rajiv Verma, Chairman, Proctorial Board. (Actions to be taken by Dr. Rajiv Verma, Chairman, Proctorial Board). 9. WhatsApp group of 1s t year students will be formed by Chairman, ·Proctorial Board to accelerate the circulation of relevant information related to Anti-Ragging measures (Actions to be taken by Chairman, Proctorial Board). 10. Chairman, Proctorial Board will circulate relevant information related to Anti-Ragging measures in various groups of students (Actions to be taken by Chairman, Proctorial Board). 11. Members of Students' Council / NCC / NSS will actively participate in the Anti-Ragging activities as per instructions conveyed by concerned authority (Actions to be taken by Dean (Students Welfare), NCC Officers & Programme Officers, NSS). 12. External members of the Anti-Ragging Committee will be invited to the Orientation Programme (Actions to be taken by Dean (Students' Welfare). P.T.O. 13. Foreign Students will also be given exposure regarding laws of land separately and will be organized by Chairman, Proctorial Board (Actions to be taken by Chairman, Proctorial Board). 14. Anti-Ragging duties of Faculty and Staff members in 1s1 year hostels will begin frorn 17•08-2024 (Actions to be taken by Dean (Students' Welfare). 15. Anti-ragging measures for 1 s, year students coming in hostels before 17.08.2024 will be taken by Hostel Authorities (Actions to be taken by Chief Warden(Boys and Girls Hostels)). 16. There will be team work in overall Anti-ragging work. However, Chief Warden (Boys), Chief Warden (Girls) and their team will have to focus on Hostels and nearby areas for prevention of possible ragging incidents throughout the year. (Actions to be taken by Dean (Students' Welfare), Chief Warden (Boys) and Chief Warden (Girls Hostel)) 17. Chairman, Proctorial Board and his team along with Professor In-Charge (Security and Surveillance) and his team will keep a close watch in areas outside hostels including academic areas, campus, outside campus etc. (Actions to be taken by Chairman, Proctorial Board and Professor In-Charge (Security and Surveillance)). After completion of the task, actions taken• may be reported to the Dean (Students' Welfare) at the earliest. This issues with the approval of the competent authority in the Institute ~,~\i\~~~ Dean (Students' Welfare) 1. Alf members of Anti- Ragging Committee (ARC) 2. All members of Anti- Ragging Squad (ARS) Copy to: 1. Assistant Registrar to Director for kind information of the Director. 2. Faculty lie ( Website) with the request to upload the information on the institute website. 3. Professor 1/C (E & C) with the request to facilitate installation of Anti-ragging hoardings, posters and banners at various places in the institute premises including hoste\s. 4. Personal Secretary to Registrar for kind information of Registrar.