URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Invitation-012025-1-1.pdf
Title: Invitation-012025-1-1.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 407
--------------------------------------------------
Placement Invitation Greetings from NIT Kurukshetra! National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra (Institution of National Importance) is a renowned technical and management education institution having a legacy of 60+ years and one of the top-ranked Engineering institutes in India and facilitates quality technical & management education and research. It gives us immense pleasure to extend you and your team a most cordial invitation to participate in the Campus Recruitment drive of our Institute for the 2025 passing out batch. Now, more than ever, the emphasis is on Institute- Industry interaction and working in the direction of creating a win-win situation for all stakeholders and we are confident that the products of our training are extremely competent and, therefore, worthy of a place in your organization. The final placement drive procedure is open to students enrolled in all B.Tech., M.Tech., MCA, MBA, and M.Sc. degrees. Programme Available Under Graduate Programme (B.Tech.) Branch Computer Engineering Information Technology Electronics & Communication Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Production & Industrial Civil Engineering Strength 231 157 154 152 151 81 156 Post Graduate Programme (M.Tech./MCA/MBA/M.Sc.) Department Specialization Strength Department Specialization Strength Computer Science and Engineering Computer Engineering 41 Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering 07 Cyber Security 30 Electronics and Communication Engg. Communication System. 09 Transportation Engineering 22 Electrical Engineering Power Systems 04 Structural Engineering 25 Power Electronics & Drives 03 Geotechnical Engineering 06 Control Systems 07 Mechanical Engineering Thermal Engineering 01 Physics Nanomaterials & Nanotechnology 01 Machine Design 06 Production & Industrial Engineering 03 Master of Computer Applications (MCA) Master of Computer Applications (MCA) 94 School of VLSI Design & Embedded System VLSI Design 49 Master of Business Administration (MBA) Master of Business Administration (MBA) 36 Embedded System Design 23 M.Sc. Physics 14 School of Renewable Energy & Efficiency Renewable Energy Systems 04 Chemistry 15 Mathematics 19 The Training & Placement Cell of the institute is well-equipped with all the necessary facilities for conducting written test, group discussion, personal interview, audio-visual presentation, and with internet connectivity for online tests. We take pleasure in accommodating the recruitment team in our Guest House and taking care of their hospitality. We seek your expression of interest of participation in our campus placement/ internship program by duly filling the Job Notification Form (JNF). For more details you can reach our Training & Placement Officer tpo@nitkkr.ac.in or Training & Placement office at tnpoffice@nitkkr.ac.in We look forward to your participation. Regards Training & Placement Cell Team NIT Kurukshetra Download JNF