URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Detailed-Advertisement-Advt.No_.19.2025.pdf
Title: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Description: 
Word Count: 1389
--------------------------------------------------
jk"Vªh; izkS|ksfxdh laLFkku] dq:{ks= NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, KURUKSHETRA [Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India] KURUKSHETRA – 136 119 (HARYANA) Advt. No.19/2025 RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF REGISTRAR National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra invites applications in the prescribed format from the Indian Nationals for filling up of the post of Registrar in the Institute on deputation (including Short Term Contract) basis. Educational and Other Qualifications & Experience: Sr. No. Name of the Post Educational and other qualifications required for post 1. Registrar - 01 Level-14 (Rs. 144200-218200) Method of Recruitment: Deputation (including Short Term Contract) for a period of 5 years or till attaining the age of 62 years whichever is earlier, or as fixed by Govt. of India by orders issued in this regard from time to time. Deputation (including Short Term Contract): Officers under the Central/State Governments/ Universities/Recognized Research Institutes or Institute of national importance or Govt. laboratory or PSU:- Educational Qualification & Experience: Essential: Educational Qualification: Masters’ degree with at least 55% marks or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in the UGC 7 point scale from a recognized University/Institute. Experience: i) Holding analogous post, or ii) At least 15 year’s experience as Assistant Professor in the AGP of Rs. 7000/- and above or with 8 years of service in the AGP of Rs. 8000/- and above including as Associate professor along with 3 years experience in educational administration, or iii) Comparable experience in research establishment and /or other institutions of higher education, or iv) 15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years shall be as Deputy Registrar or an equivalent post in the GP of Rs. 7600/- or above. Desirable: i) Qualification in area of management/ Engineering /Law ii) Experience in computerized administration/legal/ financial /establishment matters. Age Limit: 56 years Period of Probation, if any: Not Applicable -2- General Conditions: 1. The applicants are required to apply in the prescribed format alongwith self-attested documents and non-refundable application fee of Rs.1000/- for UR/OBC/EWS and Rs.500/- for SC/ST/PwBD category through offline mode. 2. The candidates should carefully fill up all the details required in the application form as no correspondence regarding change of details will be entertained after the submission of application/last date for applying. If any of their claims is found to be incorrect, it will lead to the rejection of their candidature. 3. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of submitted information, other documents and photograph. Furnishing of any false information and/or suppression / concealment of facts shall lead to rejection/cancellation of selection/appointment. 4. The details regarding qualification and experience etc. are as per the Recruitment Rules-2019 for non-teaching staff of NITs notified by the Ministry of Education (MoE). However, any modification in the recruitment rules notified by MoE will be applicable. The selection procedure will governed by the latest recruitment rules and OMs issued by MoE till the date of interview. 5. The candidates should go through all the instructions, Recruitment Rules - 2019 carefully and ensure that they fulfill all eligibility conditions. Their candidature to any stage of the recruitment process will be provisional subject to satisfying the eligibility criteria for the post. 6. The Institute reserves the right to fix the criteria for short-listing of eligible applicants to be called for interview so as to restrict the numbers to a reasonable limit. The candidates having the desirable qualification and experience as per the Requirement Rules – 2019 of NITs will be given preference while short listing of the applicants. 7. The age limit and qualifications/experience etc. for the post shall be determined as on the last date of submission of application form. 8. Any application without required self attested copy of certificates/testimonials issued by the competent authority is liable to be rejected. 9. Mere fulfillment of the required qualifications and experience etc., does not entitle a candidate to be called for interview/selection. 10. Besides the pay in the pay matrix as per the 7th CPC, admissible allowances applicable for the post like DA, HRA etc. in accordance with Institute Rules in force from time to time are payable. The employees of the Institute will be entitled to medical benefit for self and family as per the relevant rules. Leave Travel Concession for self and family as per Central Government Rules. 11. The applications of only such candidates shall be considered that are routed through proper channel alongwith duly certified copies of Annual Confidential Report (ACR)/Annual Performance Assessment Report (APAR) for the last five years and Vigilance clearance certificate & certificate showing Major or Minor penalties if any imposed from the competent authority of the organization where they are serving. In case, the original application routed through proper channel is likely to be delayed, a photocopy of the application should be sent in advance so as to reach before the prescribed last date. 12. Any Vigilance/Disciplinary cases/Criminal Cases should not be pending/ contemplated against the candidates working in any Government Organization. In such cases, application shall not be considered. 13. Candidate should not have been convicted by any Court of Law. 14. The pay and conditions of deputation of the Officer selected will be regulated in accordance with the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT), Govt. of India O.M. No.6/8/2009- Estt.(Pay-II) dated 17.06.2010, as amended from time to time and other instructions of the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India or Board of Governors of NIT, Kurukshetra issued in this regard from time to time. For the meaning of deputation and short term contract, the DoPT, Govt. of India O.M. No.AB.14017/13/2013-Estt.(RR) (1349) shall be taken into reference. -3- 15. The Industry / Research experience should be in Government or Public Enterprise or National Laboratory. However, experience in Private Industry will be considered provided it is incorporated in the Indian Companies Act of 1956. 16. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for interview. 17. The candidates will be called for the interview on the basis of information furnished by them. The appointment will be solely subject to fulfillment of all the eligibility conditions for the advertised post. 18. All original documents will have to be produced at the time of interview for verification. 19. No TA/DA will be paid to attend the Written-Test/Skill-Test/Interview. 20. The appointment of selected candidates is subject to being found physically fit and sound in health for the services in the Institute which shall be examined through a medical examination by the Medical Board/Senior Medical Officer / Medical Officer of the Institute as the case may be. The medical examination may be undertaken before joining the post. Selected candidates will be on probation initially for one year which may be extended on unsatisfactory performance as per rules. 21. No correspondence, whatsoever, will be entertained from the candidates in connection with the process of selection/interview. Canvassing in any manner would entail disqualification of the candidature. 22. The applicants are required to visit the Institute website regularly as any subsequent corrigendum/addendum etc. shall be published on the Institute website only. 23. The Institute reserves to right to modify/defer or cancel full/part of the advertisement/ recruitment at any stage of processing without assigning any reasons. 24. The Institute reserves the right not to fill the advertised post. 25. The Institute reserves the right to reject any or all applications without assigning any reason. 26. The decision of the competent authority will be final in the matter of selection. 27. Any dispute regarding the recruitment will fall under the jurisdiction of District Kurukshetra. How to apply 1. Applications must be submitted in the prescribed format as available in the Institute Website. Candidates can download the same from the website www.nitkkr.ac.in. 2. The name of the post applied for should be super scribed on the left-top corner of the envelope containing the application. 3. The filled in application should be accompanied by non-refundable application fee receipt of Rs.1000/- (for UR/EWS/OBC) and Rs.500/- (for SC/ST/PwBD) paid through online mode as the case may be. 4. Applications duly filled in all respects along with self attested photocopies of certificates and the prescribed application fee/online fee payment receipt should send through proper channel to “The Registrar, National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra-136119 (Haryana)” so as to reach on or before 06.10.2025 by Speed Post/Registered Post. Applications received after the last date due to Postal delay or any other reasons will not be considered. Sd/- Registrar I/c