URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Advt.No_.97.2024.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.97.2024.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 468
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.97/2024 Advertisement for the Internship (8 weeks) Applications in the prescribed format are invited from external students for an Internship of 8 weeks to be completed before 10.03.2025 to work in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India sponsored project titled “Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-Ill" at Department of Computer Engineering. The internship will be governed by the funding agency (MeitY) rules & NIT Kurukshetra. The details of the advertisement are given below: Title of the Project : Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-Ill Chief Investigator : Prof. Mayank Dave, Professor, Department of Computer Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Number of Internships : Up to 05 (Five) Duration : 8 Weeks (To be completed before 10.03.2025) Stipend : Funding support Rs. 20,000/- (@Rs.10,000 per month for 2 months as per MeitY terms & conditions) Essential Qualifications : Students pursuing B.Tech./B.E. (Third Year / Final Year) or M.Tech./M.E. (Final Year) in Computer Science and Engineering/ Computer Engineering /Information Technology/Cyber Security/Information Security or equivalent with First class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks. Desirable Qualifications : 1) Proficiency in Python / Java / Linux 2) Experience in simulation tools related to Computer, Network and Information Security. Mode of Internship : Physical at NIT Kurukshetra Accommodation and Food : The institute may provide the accommodation facility depending upon availability which will be borne by the selected candidate as per the institutional norms. Benefits to Students : The selected students will have good opportunity to work in a national project in the area of Computer Network and Security. If the student is willing to continue the project / dissertation work, an extension in internship up to the end of semester may be allowed without stipend. Page 1 of 1 Page 2 of 2 Application Procedure : Eligible and Interested students should apply through the given Google Form link on or before 10 January 2025: https://forms.gle/2JZzVysbcvS8Mpeh9 Terms and Conditions: ● In case of the offer for internship, the selected candidate has to submit “No Objection Certificate” from the Head of Department/Institute within 10 days of offer letter. ● The Candidates will be shortlisted on the basis of merit, interview/test and need of the project. ● Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their Applications. ● The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. ● The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of the information, other documents, and photographs submitted. ● The Institute reserves the right to cancel the advertisement without assigning any reason. For any queries contact: Prof. Mayank Dave, Chief Investigator Email: mdave@nitkkr.ac.in Sd/- Registrar Incharge