URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/NEWSLETTER-2024.pdf
Title: NEWSLETTER 2024.cdr
Description: 
Word Count: 6126
--------------------------------------------------
Highlights a glance @ Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in -2023 - A National Conference on fostering innovation and entrepre- neurship. Phase wise Recruitment Drive - Over 120 faculties and staff appointed to streng- then our academic and (Institution of National Importance) From the Director's Desk- Insightful discussion with our esteemed Director on the vision and future of NIT Kurukshetra. From the Dean Student W e l f a r e ' s D e s k - A n engaging conversation on student well-being and initiatives to enhance campus life. India Research Excell- ence-Citation Awards 2023- NIT Kurukshetra honoured for outstanding research achievements (powered by Web of Science). administrative framework. New UG and PG Programs - Exciting undergraduate and postgraduate programs introduced to expand academic horizons. Geeta Course Introduced - A signiﬁcant MoU signed between NIT Kurukshetra and ISKCON to offer a unique course on Geeta. Tech-Spardha - A platform for showcasing tech- nological prowess and feasibility. CITIUS - Highlights from our exciting and competitive sports events. GLIMPSES OF ACTIVITIES MEDIA SECTION Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 3 From The Director's Desk Prof. B.V.Ramana Reddy As we usher in the ﬁrst issue of our Institute Newsletter for 2024, NIT Kurukshetra family is ﬁlled with a profound sense of pride and optimism. The dawn of a new year presents an opportunity to reﬂect on the achievements, embrace the challenges that lie ahead, and chart a course for the future with renewed vigour. In the past months, NIT Kurukshetra has continued to uphold its legacy of excellence in education, research, and innovation. The students have excelled in academics, sports, and cultural activities, bringing laurels to the institute and making us proud. The faculty and researchers have contributed signiﬁcantly to cutting-edge research and development, ensuring that the institute remains at the forefront of technological advancements. This year, the commitment is to further enhance the quality of education and research in the institute. The focus is on fostering an environment that encourages creativity, critical thinking, and problem- solving skills. The goal is to equip the students with the knowledge and skills required to thrive in an ever-evolving global landscape. Strengthening the industry collaborations and partnerships are one of the prime goals. The aim is to provide the students with real-world exposure and opportunities to apply their learning in practical settings by working closely with the industry leaders. This will not only enhance their employability but also prepare them to be future leaders in their respective ﬁelds. As we move forward, it must be remembered that real strength lies in unity and collective effort. Every member of the NIT Kurukshetra family is encouraged to actively participate in all the initiatives and contribute to the institute's growth and success. Together, NITKkr can achieve greater heights and continue to make a positive impact on society. My heartfelt gratitude is extended to the editorial team for their hard work and dedication in bringing out this newsletter. I hope that this publication will serve as a platform to celebrate the achievements, share valuable insights, and inspire us all to strive for excellence. Wishing you all a prosperous and fulﬁlling year ahead. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in www.nitkkr.ac.in www.nitkkr.ac.in 4 Dean Student Welfare's Message Prof. Dixit Garg It gives me immense pleasure to welcome all to the ﬁrst issue of the Institute Newsletter for 2024. This platform celebrates achievements and informs about the various activities and initiatives at NIT Kurukshetra. The Institute is committed to foster a supportive and enriching environment where each student can thrive academically, personally, and professionally. Several exciting events, programs, and initiatives lined up for this year, aimed at enhancing student life on campus. The Student Welfare focus on holistic development remains unwavered through mental health resources, career counselling, or extracurricular opportunities etc. The students are encouraged to actively participate in the events and programs designed for growth and to take advantage of the resources available. A student's journey at NIT Kurukshetra is not just about academic excellence but also about becoming well- groomed individuals ready to face the challenges of the future. Thank you for being an integral part of our vibrant community. Let us work together to make this year remarkable. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 5 The conference, RASE 2023, was a collaborative event being organized on December 20, 2023 by the Department of Holistic Education, Vidya Bharti Uttar Kshetra, and Hindu Shiksha Samiti, Haryana in partnership with NIT Kurukshetra. The aim of this conference was to explore and discuss the ways in which educational institutions, particularly those with a technical and t e c h n o l o g y f o c u s , c a n c r e a t e a n environment conducive to entrepreneurship and innovation. By fostering such an environment, it was intended to empower students and society as a whole to reap the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and NIT Kurukshetra set the standard for success. NIT Kurukshetra hosted an impactful workshop in collaboration with BIS, organized by Haryana Branch ofﬁce (HRBO) of BIS on October 4, 2023. The event was graced by distinguished guests, including Shri Rajeev P, Deputy Director General North (DDGN), Shri Ramana Reddy, Director of NIT Kurukshetra, and DG BIS, who joined via video conference. The workshop commenced with welcome addresses from DDGN and Director NIT Kurukshetra, highlighting the signiﬁcance of their partnership and the role of standards in sustainable development. -2023: A National Conference on Role of Academic-driven Start-ups in Economy (RASE) myriad beneﬁts that emerge from the world of start-up ventures. The inaugural session was graced by the Hon'ble Governor of Haryana. The event was presided over by the Hon'ble Director of the Institute, Prof. B. V. Ramana Reddy. Besides, the function was graced by dignitaries, including VCs and CEOs of organizations. The conference also features three prominent keynote speakers. Empowering Tomorrow's Innovators List of the MoU signed Sr. No. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 1. All India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi, Regarding : J&K Students Internship 2. Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) 3. ISKCON Kurukshetra 4. CSIR-Central Road Research Institute, New Delhi 5. HP Oil Gas Company, Mumbai Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 6 National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra embraces a new chapter of academic advancement under the leadership of its recently appointed Director. Dr. B.V. Ramana Reddy brings a fresh perspective and a commitment to align the institute's initiatives with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. In line with NEP-2020's vision of fostering i n t e r d i s c i p l i n a r y l e a r n i n g a n d promoting innovation, NIT Kurukshetra has introduced a suite of new undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programs across key disciplines. Under the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, the institute now offers UG programs in B. Tech in Artiﬁcial Intelligence & Machine Learning, as well as Industrial Internet of Things. Additionally, the Department of Mathematics has introduced a new B.Tech program in Mathematics & Computing. Each of these three programs has around 60 seats and IIT-JEE Mains qualiﬁed candidates are eligible to take admission. These programs align with NEP-2020's emphasis on promoting research and innovation in higher education as well as for the society. At the postgraduate level, NIT Kurukshetra now offers Master of Science (MSc) programs in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics having regular as well as self-ﬁnancial admission mode through CCMN (Centralized Counselling for M. Sc./M. Sc. (Tech.) admission). The candidates who qualiﬁed the national level JAM (Joint A d m i s s i o n T e s t f o r M a s t e r s ) examination conducted by IITs are eligible to take admission against the regular and self-ﬁnance vacancies, whereas, few of the self-ﬁnancial seats are considered with a relaxation of JAM examination. These PG programs provide students with opportunities for advanced study and research in fundamental sciences, paving the way for exciting career paths in academia, research institutions, and industry. Phase wise Recruitment Drive, Appoints Over 120 Faculties and staffs National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra had embarked on a comprehensive Faculty Recruitment Drive aimed at bolstering its academic prowess and enriching the learning experience for students. NIT Kurukshetra has conducted an ambitious two-phase recruitment drive of teaching and non-teaching staffs, to appoint over 100 faculty members across various academic ranks, including Assistant Professors with different pay grades, Associate Professors, and Professors and several non-teaching staffs. This comprehensive recruitment initiative underscores Honourable Director Dr. B.V. Ramana Reddy's commitment to academic excellence and institutional growth. The drive aims to strengthen the institute's teaching, research and mentorship capabilities, fostering an environment conducive to intellectual exploration and innovation. In the second phase of the recruitment drive, The Honourable Director had also taken initiative for the recruitment of the non-teaching staff recently. Under this recruitment drive, several non-teaching staff is recruited and several existing staffs are promoted to the respective higher post. NIT Kurukshetra Introduced Exciting UG and PG Programs Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 7 Under the leadership of Honourable Director, Prof. B. V. Ramana Reddy, NIT Kurukshetra is reaching new heights with the construction of additional ﬂoors for its Lecture Hall Complex. This expansion project reﬂects the institute's commitment to providing ample space for academic activities while enhancing its infrastructure to meet the growing needs of students and faculty. The higher ﬂoors of the Lecture Hall Complex will offer state-of-the-art facilities, including modern classrooms equipped with advanced technology and comfortable seating arrangements. This development will not only accommodate the Republic day was celebrated on 26 January 2024 at NIT Kurukshetra with huge grandeur. The celebrations were attended by Prof. B. V. Ramana Reddy, Director, NIT Kurukshetra, Prof Dixit Garg, Dean SW, NIT Kurukshetra, Prof. G.R. Samantaray, Registrar, NIT Kurukshetra amongst others. Prof. Reddy hoisted the ﬂag and addressed the crowd as the chief guest and emphasized the importance of the republic day. He also reminded everyone of the day 26 January 1950, when our country received its constitution. The occasion was celebrated by various cultural performances, yoga demonstration and speeches. Geeta Course Introduced: MoU signed between NIT Kurukshetra and ISKCON The future engineers who are taking admission in the National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra are given the knowledge of Geeta as a course under the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The prospective engineers have taken the Geeta course as an elective subject in their ﬁrst year of admission. A MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) is signed between NIT Kurukshetra and ISKCON. On behalf of NIT, Registrar Prof. G. R. Samanta Rai, and on behalf of ISKCON, ISKCON Kurukshetra President Shakshi Gopal Maharaj has signed the MoU. The Director of NIT Kurukshetra, Prof. B. V. Ramana Reddy and Dean Student Welfare, Prof. Dixit Garg were NIT Kurukshetra Elevates Lecture Hall Complex with Higher Floors present on this occasion. The Director said this MoU will give future engineers an opportunity to develop a holistic personality based on knowledge given in Geeta. This course based on Geeta will be taught to the ﬁrst- year B.Tech Students under the Department of Humanities and Social Science. increasing student population but also provide a conducive environment for collaborative learning and academic excellence. Republic Day Celebrations The NCC also demonstrated spectacular performances in front of the gathering. On this day, the Institute awarded the prestigious Best Faculty Award to Dr. Avijit Paul, Dept. of Chemistry, Prof. R. P. Chauhan, Dept. of Physics and Dr. Amilan Jose, Dept. of Chemistry. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 8 NIT KKR bagged India Research Excellence-Citation Awards 2023 (powered by Web of Science) NIT Kurukshetra wins the 'India Research Excellence - Citation Awards 2023' (powered by Web of Science), in the category of Research Excellence in Engg & Tech. category. The Institute is awarded in the category of Research Excellence in Engg. & Tech. at an award ceremony held in Delhi on September 26, 2023. Prof. R. K. Sharma, Dean of Research & Consultancy (R&C), NIT Kurukshetra, received the award. The India Research Excellence - Citation Awards are part of the ongoing efforts by Clarivate to recognize and honor research excellence in the country and are announced once every 2 or 3 years. These awards recognize individuals and institutions who have made outstanding pioneering research contributions in designated categories and have had signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the research in that area. RESEARCH AND CONSULTANCY Semiconductor Facilities NIT Kurukshetra streamed the address of Hon'ble PM, Shri Narendra Modi, on Feb.13, 2024 from 10.30 AM. This will be of huge signiﬁcance for India towards becoming a developed nation in 2047. A seminar was conducted in this regard on the day where Prof. B.V. Ramana Reddy, chief guest, said that India has started its journey in semiconductors and will soon revolutionize the ﬁeld. The central government inaugurated three semiconductor facilities with the aim of being a developed nation. Hon'ble PM, Shri Narendra Modi, addressed the nation saying the students of the Indian technical institutions to contribute towards this dream. He said that this will generate huge employment opportunities, especially for the youth. Viksit Bharat Viksit Bharat inaugural drive, launched by Hon'ble PM Shri Narendra Modi, was conducted at the board room of Jubilee Hall at NIT Kurukshetra on 11 December, 2023. The drive, which aims at making India a developed nation by 2047, was streamed live at the venue. The drive was originally conducted in hybrid mode. The drive was attended by Prof. Dixit Garg, Dean of Student Welfare, NIT Kurukshetra. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 9 v NIT Kurukshetra awarded the prestigious Best Faculty Award 2023 to Dr. Avijit Paul, Dept. of Chemistry, Prof. R. P. Chauhan, Dept. of Physics and Dr. Amilan Jose, Dept. of Chemistry. Startup Day A program was organized to celebrate National Startup Day at the National Institute of Technology. The program reﬂected the Institute's commitment to promoting innovation and entrepreneurship. Chairman of the Institute Innovation Council, Prof. R.K. Sharma spoke about the need for innovation and challenges in life. During this time, the youth was inspired to face the challenges with full effort. Dean of Student Welfare Prof. Dixit Garg informed the youth about various government schemes available for startups and entrepreneurs. The Coordinator of the Technology Innovation Center of Kurukshetra University, Anurekha Sharma, inspired them to convert their ideas into a practical application so that they could adopt the path of self-reliance by starting a startup. IIC Vice President Prof. Dinesh Khanduja ended the program with a note. FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS AND PROJECTS Vigilance Awareness Week 2023 NIT Kurukshetra joined the nation in observing Vigilance Awareness Week 2023 from Oct 30th to Nov 5th. Dean's, Faculty, & Staff members took pledge against corruption & commit to the betterment of the institute & nation. Awards & Achievements: v Dr. Chetti Prabhakar, Assistant Prof. in Chemistry, was awarded with the Dr. Arvind Kumar Memorial Award 2023 for best Young Scientist in Chemistry by the Indian Council of Chemists on December 2023. Dr. Chetti Prabhakar, has joined as Editorial Board member in 2024 to the Springer Journal "Discover Chemistry". Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 10 Dr. Shweta Meena, Assistant Professor, Department of Electronics & Comm. Engg. Project Title: Development of Layered Mxene Heterostructure for Hydrogen Storage: High Capacity Sustainable Material Funding Agency: SERB-DST Commencement Date: 19 Feb. 2024 v Dr. Sudipta Ghosh, Assistant Prof. in Electrical Eng., developed the SAVE Tool (Stability Assessment, Visualization, and Enhancement) for TRANSCO, 2023 in the UAE and received the ﬁrst-place R&D award from the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure. MOEI (Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure) awarded a cash prize of 20, 000 AED. Dr. Ghosh is also recognized as IEEE Senior member and IEEE Young Professionals member. Research Projects Sanctioned (Oct. 2023 - Mar. 2024) Dr. Avijit Kumar Paul, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry. Project Title: Harnessing Metal-organic Frameworks for Sustainable Removal of Organic Dyes, Heavy Metals and Hazardous Anions from Industrial Wastewater Funding Agency: DST Haryana Commencement Date: 16 Feb. 2024 v Dr. Tanmay Maji has joined as a member of EIC-India-Theory Alliance for the Electron-Ion-Collider(EIC) Experiment at Brookhaven National Laboratory, USA. v Dr. Than Singh Saini, Assistant Prof. in Physics conferred with the Ramanujan Fellowship 2023, Offered by SERB, Govt. of India. v Dr Ravi Pratap Singh, Assistant Prof. in Mechanical Eng. has been featured in the list of "World Ranking of Top 2% Scientists" as per the Stanford University, USA. v Dr. Kolla Laxmi Ganapathi has joined as Adjunct Faculty position by IIT Madras since September, 2023. Dr. Tanmay Maji, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics Project Title: Soft-collinear effective theory approach to precision angularity event shapes at high energy scattering experiments Funding Agency: SERB-DST Commencement Date: 22 Dec. 2023 Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 11 Research Projects (Ongoing) Name of the PI, Designations Project Title Funding Agency and Department Prof. Brahmjit Singh, PI, Funding agency Electronics & Communication SAC ISRO Engg. Dept. Ahmedabad Dr. Sandeep Kumar Sood-PI Ministry of Electronics Dr. Munish Bhatia, Co-PI & Information Computer Application Dept. Technology (MeitY) Dr. Amilan Jose D.,PI, and DST Haryana Dr. Vikas D. Ghule, Co-PI, Chemistry Dept. Dr. Avijit Kumar Paul, PI, SERB-DST Chemistry Dept. Dr. Amilan Jose D., PI, SERB-DST Chemistry Dept. Dr. M. Senthikumar, PI, SERB-DST Chemistry Dept. Dr. Yashashchandra Dwivedi, DST Haryana PI, Physics Dept. Dr. Amilan Jose D. PI, CSIR Chemistry Dept. Dr. Lillie Dewan (EED) Chief Ministry of Electronics Investigator Dr. Mahesh & Information Pal (CED), Co-Chief Technology (MeitY) Investigators, Dr. Ritu Garg, (CoE) Through IITDM Dr. V.G. Durgarao Rayudu, (EED) Kurnool or CDAC Hyderabad Dr. Ashwani, PI Humanities Dept. Impact Assessment of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme ICSSR NIT KKR, Dr. Blessy Sarah Mathew, Co-PI, LPU, Punjab, Dr. Nittymol Antony, Co-PI, Kristu Jayanti College, Bengaluru and Dr. Sarwdaman Kashyap, Co-PI, Govt. Polytechnic College, Jehanabad, Bihar Dr. Ghanapriya Singh, PI, By IIT Ropar- Assistant Professor, Dept. Technology and of ECE Innovative Foundation for Agriculture and Water Technology Development Hub (AWaDH) Development of a deep learning enabled algorithm for automatic modulation recognition in blind RF environment Quantum Computing-inspired Vehicular Route Optimization for Industrial Applications Smartphone assisted portable chemical sensor for the detection to toxic Heavy Metals and Pesticides in water bodies of Haryana Boosting of Energy Generation and Storage Properties by the Composite Materials of Multinary Metal Oxides and Carbon Allotropes Synthesized from Agricultural Bio-Wastes Supramolecular organic-inorganic hybrid gels for the light- activated therapeutic carbon monoxide (CO) delivery Ruthenium Catalysed Dehydrogenation Reaction as a Platform for Hydrogen Storage Materials Development of High-yield multicolor persistent luminescent ink for safety signage Near-infrared (NIR) responsive liposomal nano-system composed of organolanthanide complexes for the sensing and bioimaging of gaseous signaling molecule hydrogen sulphide (H2 S) UAV based Urban Mapping of NIT Campus using Deep Neural Network under Capacity Building for Human Resource Development in Unmanned Aircraft System (Drone and related Technology) IoT- based Multifunctional Scalable Real- Time Farm Monitoring System for Smart Agriculture. Dr. Ashwani, Assistant Professor, Humanities & Social Sciences Project Title: Macroeconomics Forecasting Framework for Vision Policy Document Funding Agency: NITI Aayog Commencement Date: 01 Jan. 2024 Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 12 v The Patent Ofﬁce, Government of India granted a patent to the innovators of NIT Kurukshetra Prof. R. P. Chauhan, Dept. of Physics and the Research Scholar Dr. Jaya Khattar, for an invention titled CDS-CU9S5 Heterostructure, preparation thereof and photo-catalytic degradation of the industrial dye through CDS- CU9S5 heterostructure. v The Patent Ofﬁce, Government of India granted a patent for 20 years, for an invention titled Method and System for Securely Communicating in a Computer Environment to NIT Kurukshetra. The inventors are Prof. Ashutosh Kr. Singh, Dept. of Computer Applications, and Deepika Saxena. 4th International Conference on Machine Learning and Big Data Analytics (ICMLBDA) 2024 The 4th International Conference on Machine Learning and Big Data Analytics (ICMLBDA) 2024 was successfully organized by the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering from May 09-11, 2024. The conference was organized in association with the International Association of Academicians (IAASSE) and California State University, San Bernardino, USA. The proposed ICMLBDA-2024 provided a platform for researchers and professionals to share their research and reports of new technologies and applications in ML and Big Data Analytics like biometric recognition systems, medical diagnosis, industries, telecommunications, AI Petri Nets model-based diagnosis, gaming, stock trading, intelligent aerospace systems, robot control, law, remote sensing and scientiﬁc discovery agents and multi-age systems, and natural language and Web intelligence. Conference on Intelligent Electronic Systems(NCIESA-2024) The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering at the National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra concluded its highly successful National Conference on Intelligent Electronic Systems and Applications (NCIESA-2024) from February 23-24, 2024, which brought together esteemed researchers, scholars, and industry experts across the nation to explore the forefront of electronic engineering. Dr. Chandraprakash, Head of Satellite Communication Technology Development at the Space Applications Centre, ISRO, Ahmedabad, India, graced the conference as the Chief Guest and Keynote Speaker. Workshop on Nanotechnology: A Joint NIT KKR- IIT Delhi initiative The Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (NITKkr) and Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IITD) have jointly c o n d u c t e d o n e d a y w o r k s h o p o n Nanotechnology on March 12th, 2024. The workshop was organized under MeitY funded INUP- i2i Programme. The workshop was inaugurated by Prof. V.P. Singh, Dean of Planning and Development, NIT Kurukshetra, and the Chief Guest, Prof. Neeraj Khare, Professor in Physics Department and Coordinator, Nanoscale Research Facility at IIT Delhi. v The NIT Kurukshetra Faculties contributed a good number of publications (650) in reputed journals, conferences (145) and Book Chapters (27) in this academic year 2023-24. v Around 53 Training/Conference/Symposium etc. attended during Dec., 2023 - Mar. 2024 v Around 31 International Conference (Abroad) attended during Dec., 2023 - Mar. 2024 v Around 19 Conferences/Symposium etc. conducted during Dec., 2023 - Mar. 2024. GLIMPSE OF THE ACADEMIC EVENTS Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 13 Workshop on Energy Conservation & Sustainable Development (ECSD-23) The School of Renewable Energy and Efﬁciency, NIT Kurukshetra recently organized a workshop on Energy Conservation & Sustainable Development (ECSD-23), a dynamic forum aimed at fostering environmental stewardship and sustainable practices held from December 18-22, 2023. The Chief Guest Dr. B.V. Ramana Reddy, Director of NIT Kurukshetra, in his inaugural address, underscored the critical importance of embracing sustainable practices in addressing pressing environmental challenges and emphasized NIT Kurukshetra's commitment to driving positive change in this regard. Workshop on AI Powered Justice (NyAI) Artiﬁcial Intelligence technology which tries to incorporate human intelligence into the machine, the same can be utilized in the legal domain for automating legal procedures. To contribute to the Science community and the Law community, the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra in collaboration with IHUB Anubhuti IIITD Foundation arranged a 5-day workshop in the hybrid mode titled "NyAI-AI Powered Justice" during Nov 6th -10th, 2023. The panel discussion was graced by Dr. B.V. Ramana Reddy, Director of NIT Kurukshetra and Dr. Archana Mishra, Vice Chancellor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar National Law University, Sonipat as a chief guest. Prof. Reddy explained that AI can help in solving legal system and ethical issues for mankind, improving ethics, enhancing the efﬁciency of the legal system, and developing individual legal clients. List of Conferences/Symposium etc. conducted (Dec., 2023 - March 2024) Sr.No. Title Coordinators Duration 1 Dr. Mohit Dua Dec. 07-09, 2023 Dr. Ankit Jain Dr. Krishan Kumar 2 Dr. Lov Kumar Dec. 11 - 17, 2023 3 Dr. Dilbagh Singh Dec. 15-19, 2023 Dr. Ranjit Kumar Dr. Manoj Kr. Sinha 4 Dr. Shelly Vadhera Dec. 18-22, 2023 Dr. Shivam Dr. Rajesh 5 Prof. R K Aggarwal Dec. 23, 2023 Dr. Shabnam Dr. Kuldeep 6 Dr. Pankaj Verma Dec. 23 -29, 2023 7 Dr. Ritu Garg Dec. 26-30, 2023 Dr. Bharti Sinha Dr. Niyati Baliyan 8 Dr. Chhagan Charan Dec. 30, 2023 - Dr. Gaurav Verma Jan. 03, 2024 Dr. Karamdeep Singh 9 Dr. Mohit Dua Jan. 03-09, 2024 5th International Conference on Deep Learning, Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Robotics (ICDLAIR 2023) Workshop on AI and ML Based Approaches with Application and Challenges One Week Online Short Term Course on Advances in Industrial and Manufacturing Operations : Applications & Practices (AIMOAP - 2023) One Week Workshop on Energy Conservation & Sustainable Development (ECSD-23) One Day National Conference on Psychological, Science and Technology : IKS Applications Workshop on Machine Learning/Artiﬁcial Intelligence for Future Generation Communication Systems Short Term Course on Advanced Optimization Techniques for Engg. Applications (AOTEA - 2023) Short Term Course on Recent Advances in Industrial Automation (RAIA - 2023) (in online mode) Image and Speech Processing using Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 14 G a m e s , T e x a s Instrumentation, SAP labs, Wells Fargo Synopsys, Brahmos Aerospace, American Express and many more. In the current academic year 2023- 2024, till now more than 322 companies visited the institute and offered jobs and internship opportunities to the undergraduate and post graduate students of the institute. The highest pay package offer is 61 Lacs per annum with an average pay package of around 14.36 Lacs per annum. Sr.No. Title Coordinators Duration Training and Placement Training & Placement Cell, NIT, Kurukshetra conducts all recruitment related activities of the Institute with various industrial establishments and corporate houses to facilitate recruitment of graduating students. Placement record of the institute is remarkable. Leading National, International Organizations and PSUs like BPCL, EIL and BEML visited the institution for placement. Major recruiters are Microsoft India, Google, Adobe Systems, Salesforce, Expedia Group, Winzo 10 Dr. T. N. Sasamal Jan. 04-08, 2024 Dr. Pankaj Verma Dr. Chhagan Charan 11 Dr. Lillie Dewan Feb. 05-09, 2024 Dr. Mahesh Pal 12 Dr. Vrinda Gupta Feb. 23-24, 2024 Dr. Gaurav Verma 13 Prof. Hari Singh Mar. 01-03, 2024 Dr. Rajneesh Dr. Satnam 14 Dr. Kuldeep Kumar Mar. 01-05, 2024 Dr. Mohit Dua Dr. Ankit Kumar Jain 15 Dr. Poonam Jindal Mar. 02-06, 2024 Dr. Karamdeep Singh Dr. Hemant Sharma 16 Prof. R. K. Sharma Mar. 04-08, 2024 Dr. Gaurav Saini Dr. Dharmendra Yadav 17 Dr. Ashwani Kumar Mar. 04-08, 2024 Dr. Shivam Dr. Pradeep Kumar 18 Dr. Sathans Mar. 08-10, 2024 Dr. Rahul Sharma 19 Dr. Neena Jaggi 12 March, 2024 Dr. K Lakshmi Ganpathi STTP on Research Methodologies and Scientiﬁc Research Writing using LaTex (RMSRL-2024) BOOT CAMP/Workshop on Drone Technologies and Applications at GJU Hisar (3 Boot Camps) National Conference on Intelligent Electronics System and Applications (NCIESA 2024) International Conference on Mechanical Engineering & Technology (ICMET-2024) One Week Online Hands-on Workshop on Machine Learning Techniques and Applications (MLTA - 2024) Short Term Course on Recent Advances in Optimization Techniques for Engg. Applications (RAOTEA - 2024) (Online mode) Short Term Training Program on Nano-Scale Devices : Recent Advancement and Future of Semiconductor Industry (NSD - 2024) Short Term Course on Training on ANSYS Software : Application to Engineering Problems (ANSYS-AEP) Intl. Conference on Future Power Network and Smart Energy Systems: Issues and Challenges (FPNSES-2023) Joint Workshop on Nano-Technology under Meity funded INUP i2i Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 15 GLIMPSE OF INSTITUTE INITIATIVES Yuva Sangam () Phase-III(under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat) An initiative by Government of India to strengthen the connection between people, especially among youth across the Nation. "Sardar Patel gave us Ek Bharat. It is now the solemn duty of 125 crore Indians to collectively make Shrestha Bharat" --Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi The Indian culture, often labelled as an amalgamation of various cultures, spans across the Indian subcontinent and has been inﬂuenced and shaped by a history that is several thousand years old. The spirit of mutual understanding amidst a shared history has enabled a special unity in diversity, which stands out as a tall ﬂame of nationhood that needs to be nourished and cherished. The idea of a sustained and structured cultural connection between people of different regions was mooted by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi during the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas held on 31st October, 2015, to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. In Yuva Sangam (Phase-III), Haryana has been paired with Jharkhand and NIT Kurukshetra and IIIT Ranchi have been nominated as the Nodal Centres of Haryana and Jharkhand, respectively. As a part of this program, 50 participants from Jharkhand visited Haryana during 23rd November 2023 to 01st December 2023. During their visit, the youth will had a multi-dimensional exposure under ﬁve broad areas - Paryatan (Tourism), Parampara (Traditions), Pragati (Development) and Paraspar Sampark (People-to-people connect), Prodyogik (Technology). Training Activities: All students of UG branches undergo Internship/Industrial Training/Project work during their complete 6th semester. The Training & Placement Cell has organized a STC on "Attitude, Behaviour and Career skills for Entrepreneurship and Professional Development (ABCS-2024) from 4th - 8th March with a participation of 96 students for enhancing the professional development of students in placements and internship drives. Thought Lab Activities During the VIHASA workshop, BK sisters enlightened participants on valuing self and spirituality in healthcare, emphasizing learning from positive aspects of our surroundings. The ﬁrst day included a dance activity for joy. Day two focused on positivity, its impact, and cultivating positive thoughts, alongside appreciating oneself and others at work, guided by four principles: sincerity, speciﬁcity, Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 16 Ram Mandir Pran Pratistha Ram Mandir Prathistha was celebrated in NIT Kurukshetra on 22 January 2024. The joyous moment was celebrated with offerings and yagya at the venue. Prof. B.V. Ramana Reddy, Director, NIT Kurkshetra, and Prof. Dixit Garg, Dean SW, NIT Kurukshetra attended the holy ritual. Besides the ritual, the inaugural ceremony at Ayodhya was live- streamed at the Jubilee Hall of the institution for all. Prof. Dixit Garg elaborated on the principles and values of maryada purushottam Shri Ram and that each and every person should follow his footsteps. Date of the event Type of Event Event details conducted by Thought Lab 12.01.24 Expert Talk: An expert Talk on Discover Inner Balance for External Discover Inner Excellence in Jubilee Hall. Balance for External The talk was delivered by Sh. Sanjay Upreti, Financial Advisor Excellence (BSF), Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India. 19.01.24 to 21.01.24 VIHASA WORKSHOP A 03 days' ofﬂine workshop was conducted by B. k Surnaina, B.K. Prabha, B.K. Dr Preeti, B.K. Divya in Senate hall and ROOM NO 305, 309 of Thought Lab. 05.02.24 Expert talk Mastering An expert talk was conducted by renowned B.K Piyush (trainer Emotions & Public trainer) in Wisdom Hall of Thought lab on Mastering Emotions. 24.02.24 Welcoming A welcome ceremony of B.K. Shivani Didi was organized in B.K. Shivani in the Board Room of the institute on 24.02.2024 in the presence NIT Kurukshetra of Hon'ble Director, all Deans, HODs, Professors, B.K. Saroj Didi and Students representatives of the institutes. 23.02.2024 to 5 days' workshop on A 5 days' workshop on "Creative Thinking & Stress 27.02.2024 "Creative Thinking & Management" was conducted in the Institute in which Stress Management" Prof. Dixit Garg, Dean (SW) & Coordinator (Thought Lab) and Dr. Than Singh, Co-coordinator (Thought Lab) were keynote speakers. 16.03.2024 to 2 Days National A 2-day National Conference on Metacognition, Creativity 17.03.2024 Conference on and Diverse Thinking was held in Thought Lab on 16-17 March. Metacognition, Keynote speakers, Sh. Amit Verma and Dr. Ashish Gupta Creativity and Diverse emphasized on the importance to live in the present with Thinking concentration as the amount of power that concentration and purity hold is unimaginable. quality identiﬁcation, and spoiler avoidance. The ﬁnal day involved activities to derive positivity from various environments and mental and physical health, culminating in creating a 'happy space' through poster- making, incorporating elements like soft music, rivers, scenery, sunrises, and fragrances, promoting personal well-being and happiness. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 17 Tech-Spardha The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra recently hosted Techspardha-24, a national-level annual technology festival, from March 13 to March 17. The event was a vibrant hub for technical and managerial students, featuring various competitions and workshops designed to foster innovation and practical skills. The inaugural ceremony at Jubilee Hall featured notable guests including Dr. V.P. Singh, acting director, Dr. Gyan Bhushan, president, Dr. R.K. Sharma, dean of research and development, and Dr. Poonam Jindal, co-president. They emphasized the importance of technological innovation in national development and motivated students to leverage the opportunities provided by Techspardha-24. CAMPUS PULSE Shikshangan-2024 The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra hosted the grand two- day festival, Shikshangan 2024, celebrating student talent and creativity. The event commenced with a traditional Saraswati Vandana, setting an auspicious tone for the festivities. The inauguration featured an overview of the various activities planned for the festival, including dance, singing, quizzes, "Education's Got Talent," and a science exhibition. These events aim to engage students from all educational backgrounds, providing them a platform to showcase their diverse talents. The event was honored by the presence of chief guests, Group Captain S.C. Gaur, recipient of the Shaurya Chakra and Vishisht Seva Medal, Brigadier K.K. Singh. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 18 CITIUS The CITIUS 2024 Sports Festival at the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, marked a celebration of athleticism, camaraderie, and outstanding achievements. The inauguration, graced by Director Dr. B.V. Ramana Reddy, emphasized the signiﬁcance of sports in enhancing mental health, setting the stage for a spirited competition. In his words, sports not only contribute to physical well- being but also play a vital role in maintaining mental health. The festival exempliﬁed the institute's commitment to holistic education, emphasizing the importance of sports alongside academic pursuits. The closing ceremony, graced by the chief guest, Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist and national hockey team player, Surendra Singh, further elevated the event. The festival's success is a testament to the dedication of participants, fostering a culture of sportsmanship and excellence at NIT Kurukshetra. Athletes displayed remarkable prowess across various disciplines. The Mechanical branch claimed the Champions Trophy with an impressive haul of 70 medals, showcasing their sporting prowess. SPORTS SPECTRUM Virasat-2024 The grand inauguration of the "Sampoorna Virasat Workshop" by the Kurukshetra chapter of SPICMACAY organization at NIT Kurukshetra was a spectacle of cultural magniﬁcence. Dignitaries including the esteemed Director of NIT Kurukshetra, Professor B.V. Ramana Reddy, the affable Dean Student Welfare, Dixit Garg Ji, and the visionary Professor Incharge Students Club, Dr. Pratibha Agarwal Ji, graced the occasion with their august presence. Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat scheme In a bid to foster national unity and mutual understanding, delegates from Haryana recently embarked on a transformative journey as part of the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat scheme. Their one week visit to Jharkhand offered a profound exploration of the scheme's core principles: Prodyogiki (Technology), Prayatna (Tourism), Parampara (Tradition), Pragati (Development), and Praspar Sampark (people's bonding) i.e. 5P's. Venturing into the realm of Prodyogiki, the delegates delved into the intricate workings of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in North Karanpura. Issue 1 www.nitkkr.ac.in 19 NIT Kurukshetra organised InterBIT Volleyball tournament (AIINVT) 2024 with grand success. v NIT Kurukshetra performed very well in the NIT athletics championship held on February 2024 at NIT Warangal, Telangana and bagged a gold medal in the 5000m race. v Badminton, Table Tennis and Chess teams of NIT Kurukshetra participated in the "All India Inter NIT Faculty and Staff Tournament 2023" hosted at MANIT Bhopal from December 21st - 23rd. In Men's Doubles badminton, a pair of Prof. P.C. Tiwari and Prof. Jitender Chhabra secured a Silver medal in the above-age 50 category. Also, Prof. Jitender Chhabra won a Silver medal in the above-age 50 category in Men's Singles badminton. In the below-age 50 category, Prof. Gaurav Saini and Prof. Niyati Baliyan won the Bronze medal in Mixed Doubles. 200-meter Race I. Himanshu II. Ankit Yadav III. Rudra Hammer Throw I. Harsh II. Abhay Singh III. Pramod Slow Cycling (Boys) I. Nishant II. Amrish III. Devyansh Slow Cycling (Girls) I. Riya II. Tanishka III. Aarju 1-mile women's race I. Koshiki II. Surbhi III. Juhi Singh 3-mile men's race I. Aashish II. Pankaj III. Devanand Games Position Name Games Position Name Vasant Panchami Celebration by Faculty club Vasant Panchami was celebrated by the Faculty club on February 14, 2024 from 10.30 AM onwards. A puja and havan were performed to seek blessings from Ma Saraswati. The holy occasion was attended by many faculties along with their family. The occasion was graced by Prof. Dixit Garg, Dean SW, Prof. Dave and Prof. Paratibha Aggarwal amongst others. 4100-meters The team of relay race Dilip, Shushil, and Himanshu Discus Throw Gold Twinkle Soni Three-Leg Race I. Janvi and Darsh II. Dimple and Simran III. Jyoti and Twinkle Women's Sack Race I. Mehak and the II. Neha Ray III. Somya Men's Sack race I. Kapil II. Abhay III. Ramendra Women's 800-meter I. Race Jyoti II. Mushkan III. Abhilipsha National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Ph. 01744-233206, Fax : 01744-238050 Email : registrar@nitkkr.ac.in; Website : www.nitkkr.ac.in (Institution of National Importance) EDITORIAL TEAM Prof. Dr. Dixit Garg Dean, Student Welfare Dr. Tanmay Maji Faculty-in-Charge Institute Newsletter and Magazine Dr. Banhi Sanyal Associate Faculty-in-Charge Institute Newsletter and Magazine Student Editors Mr. Hemant Kumar Mr. Ravinder Ms. Sonia