URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Notification-Regarding-Internal-Reappear-Examination-for-NovDec-2024-Examination-Session.pdf
Title: Notification-Regarding-Internal-Reappear-Examination-for-NovDec-2024-Examination-Session.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 949
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA (ACADEMIC SECTION) No. Acad.j24/ , S3. 0 August 21,2024 NOTICE The Senate in its 50 th meeting held on 25.07.2023 vide agenda item No. S 50,05 approved relaxation in the Academic Rules for promotion to higher semester of B.Tech, programs. As per guidelines No. (ii) approved by the Senate, the examination of Odd Semester courses (both internal & external) will be held in Odd Semester and the examination of Even Semester courses (both internal & external) will be held in Even Semester respectively. The Senate also approved that a student is allowed to apply for maximum 6 Nos. of reappear courses (internal and/or external). This decision of the Senate will be effective from academic session 2023-24 for all batches. As per above decision of the Senate, student will not be allowed to appear in the examinations for more than N+6 courses in any semester, where 'N' is the total no. of courses of the current semester the student is studying in and 6 is the maximum number of reappear courses (internal and/or external). Further, the Competent Authority has also allowed the students of a.Tech. programs admitted prior to AY, 2023-24 excluding those studying their 1st/2 nd Semester onwards in A.Y. 2023-24 to appear for reappear examination in odd semester for courses offered in even semester and vice-versa vide letter I'Jo, Acad./2023/1369 dated 01 st September, 2023. Accordingly, the students having re-appears in sessional component of courses of Odd & Even Semesters are hereby informed to apply for sessional improvement of Odd & Even Semester courses [Except 2023 Batch of B.Tech, programs) in the prescribed sessional improvement form subject to not completion of maximum duration of the program, They are required to submit sessional improvement form separately for Odd & Even Semesters at Student's Help Desl< along with self-attested photocopy of DIV1Cs/Result Notifications (applicable from 2017 to 2023 batches) or verification of internal re-appears from Examination Cell (from 2017 to 2023 batches) by sending email on (examinations@nitkkr.ac.in) email id. The eligible students who are interested to appear in sessional improvement of Odd & Even Semester courses may apply on prescribed sessional improvement form (copy enclosed) strictly on or before 05.00 pm, 04.09.2024 (Wednesday). It is to be noted that after 04.09.2024 (Wednesday), no request for permission to appear in sessional improvement in Odd & Even Semester courses in this session will be entertained. The cut lists for even and odd semester sessional improvement examinees will be sent to the respective HoDs/School Coordinators before start of 1st sessional in Odd Semester of Academic Year 2024-25 (i.e. before 09.09.2024). The HoDs/school coordinators are requested to ensure that sessional improvement exams and make-up test for Even Semester courses may also be conducted before the last date of teaching as per Academic Calendars of all UC & PC programs for this semester''VIO~j. This is for information and further necessary action, if required, (::j'YJ!!1z:: g;\7~* Facul{y l/e (Academic) Copy to: 1. AR to Director for kind information of the Hon'ble Director, 2. Heads of all the Departments/School Coordinators. 3. Faculty l/C (Website) for uploading on institute website. 4. Faculty I/C (Examinations) with a request to send updated list of the students of B.Tech.-2017 to 2023 batches for verification of their re-appears status in sessional components. S. Chief Warden (Boys & Girls) to circulate this notice among all the hostels. 6. Dean (Academic) for kind information. 7. oS to Registrar for kind information of the Registrar. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA SESSIONAL IMPROVEMENT FORM (w.e.f. Academic Year 2020-21) SEMESTER (EVEN/ODD) _ ACADEMIC SESSION: 20__-20__ Roll No Name: _ Mob. No. Programme/ EmaillD Specialization: _ Deptt. Branch: _ Section Student Type Regular / Ex-Student (Plz tick applicable option) Current Semester (For currently studying Regular Students Only) Sessional Improvement Semester: _ List of Courses having reappear in Sessional (Theory-T/Practical-P) Sr. No Course Code P/ T Department Name ( Course Offered by) Sr. No Course Code P/ T Department Name ( Course Offered by) 1 4 2 5 3 6 I wish to appear in Sessional Improvement in the following Course(s). I have enclosed self-attested photocopy of the DMC or email copy of the verification by the Exam Cell as a proof along with this form. Sr. No Course Code P/ T Department Name ( Course Offered by) Sr. No Course Code P/ T Department Name ( Course Offered by) 1 4 2 5 3 6 I have verified that: ­ a) The student has not completed maximum duration of the programme in this semester. (Maximum Duration for B. Tech Programmes is 8 years, M. Tech Programmes is 5 years, MBA programme is 4 years and MCA programmes is 6 years) b) The course codes are verified from DMCs or documents/records of Exam Cell. The student may be allowed to appear in the sessiona/ components of the (No.) courses as above. Course Co-ordinator/ Faculty taking sessional improvement HoD/Co-ordinator of School Help Desk Official Supdt (Academic) Faculty In-Charge (Academic) Note: ­ 1) The student must fill the form and enclose the documentary proof of re-appear in the sessional components of the courses (B.Tech. 2023 batch onwards are not eligible for reappear exams of courses are not offered in the current semester) and submit the sessional improvement form at the Student's Help Desk as per notice. The Academic Section will not give permission for sessional improvement after 1sl sessionals are over. 2) The students can apply for maximum 6 nos. of courses of their choice in internal as well as external component 3) The Academic Section will prepare cut-list for internal re-appear of Even & Odd Semesters respectively and send the same to the Examination Cell and respective HoDs/School Coordinators before start of 1st sessional exam