URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Detailed-Advt.No_.16.2025.pdf
Title: Detailed-Advt.No_.16.2025.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 542
--------------------------------------------------
राष्टर्ीय ूौद्योिगकी संःथान कुरुक्षेऽ NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.16/2025 Walk-In Interview for Guest Faculty NIT, Kurukshetra requires Guest Faculty in the disciplines of Electrical Engineering, Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry, Humanities & Social Sciences (Economics/English) and Computer Applications with PhD in the relevant discipline. Interested candidates may report for interview to the Heads of the concerned Departments on 01.08.2025 at 09:00 AM along with application (format available on Institute website), all originals & one set of attested copies of certificates, a recent Passport size photograph and an original Identity proof for verification. Specialization required for the post of Guest Faculty: Sr.No. Department/ Discipline Areas of Specialization 1. Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering 2. Physics Physics 3. Mathematics Mathematics 4. Chemistry Chemistry 5. Humanities & Social Sciences Economics/ English 6. Computer Applications Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Science etc. Minimum Qualification for appointment of Guest Faculty: Ph.D. Eligibility: - (i) Engineering Department: First class either at the UG or PG levels (60% or 6.5/10 CGPA) with a Ph.D. in relevant branch/discipline. Candidates having Ph.D. degree directly after graduation (B.E./B.Tech. etc.) from reputed Institutes/Universities will also be considered if other conditions are fulfilled. (ii) Science/Humanities and Social Sciences Department: First class at the UG and PG levels (60% or 6.5/10 CGPA) with a Ph.D. in relevant discipline. nt. work. (iii) Department of Computer Applications: First class either at the UG or PG levels (60% or 6.5/10 CGPA) in the area of AI & ML and Data Science with Ph.D. Candidates having Ph.D. degree directly after graduation (B.E./B.Tech. etc.) from reputed Institutes/Universities may also be considered if other conditions are fulfilled. Other General Conditions: 1. The nature of appointment against this advertisement is only on lecture basis from the date of engageme 2. This engagement is not an employment in any manner but only an assignment of Page 1 of 2 Page 2 of 2 time scale. gnments. years. 3. The applicants, who got selected as Guest Faculty, will not claim for their engagement against sanctioned strength, seniority and salary in 4. The applicants, who got selected as Guest Faculty, will be engaged only for academic assi 5. The superannuated teachers will also be considered for engagement as Guest Faculty subject to a maximum age limit of 70 6. The applicants, who got selected as Guest Faculty, will be paid the Honorarium only for academic assignments including lectures, tutorials, lab classes, drawing classes, seminars etc. 7. Honorarium of Rs.1500/- per contract hour plus 10% extra for examination related work (only if examination work is assigned to the Guest Faculty by the concerned Department) to a maximum of Rs. 70,900/- per month will be paid. 8. For the purpose of honorarium/remuneration, the Lab classes, drawing classes, seminars etc. of 02 contract hours’ duration shall be treated as 01 contract hour. 9. The engagement of the Guest Faculty is subject to the verification of their original documents by the Institute. 10. Duties will be as prescribed and assigned to the applicants, who got selected as Guest Faculty. 11. The applicants, who got selected as Guest Faculty, will be governed by the conduct and disciplinary rules of the Institute. 12. No TA/DA shall be paid for attending the interview. Sd/- Registrar I/c