URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/Advt.No_.22.2025.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.22.2025.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 1091
--------------------------------------------------
Page 1 of 3 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.22/2025 Recruitment of One Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the research project funded by ANRF, Govt. of India Applications are invited from the Indian nationals for the one post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for a ANRF sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below: Title of the Project Increasing Power Output and Lifespan of Photovoltaic Panel with Natural Evaporative Cooling Using Earthenware Devices. Sponsoring agency Anusandhan National Research Foundation (ANRF), Inclusivity Research Grant (IRG) program (File No: ANRF/IRG/2024/001289/ENS ) Job duration Initially for a period of one year based on quarterly review and satisfactory performance and extendable for two more years based on performance and also terminated without assigning any reason anytime, continuation is also subjected to release of Fund From ANRF. Monthly Emolument Candidate who are selected through National Eligibility Test (CSIR UGC NET or GATE) INR 37,000+HRA (1st and 2nd Year) INR 42,000+HRA (3rd Year, upon successful assessment and upgradation to SRF) Other benefits: Selected candidate may be considered for admission to Ph.D. Programme as a research scholar at NIT Kurukshetra (as per Institute norms). However, s(he) needs to apply for a PhD position when the advertisement opens. Essential qualification Full Time B.Tech /B.E., (Mechanical Engineering / Energy Science & Engineering / Renewable Energy ) and Full Time M.Tech / M.E., (All Specialization of Mechanical Engineering/ Energy Science & Engineering/ Renewable Energy ) from a recognized Institute/University with at least 60% marks or at least 6.5/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). The Candidate with GATE scores Qualified will be preferred. Or M.Sc. in Physics or Any Post Graduation in Basic Science / Engineering from recognized universities/institutes with a minimum of first class (60% marks or at least 6.5/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) ) and with GATE / CSIR-UGC JRF / National Eligibility Test-LS qualification and Expert in COMSOL Multiphysics or Ansys Software for Photovoltaic Thermal Management, any 3D Moulding heat transfer Thermal Software with publications in SCI/Scopus / Web of Science Indexed Journals or Conference Proceedings / Industry/Academic/lab/training centre/ any where Experience in COMSOL Multiphysics or Ansys 3D Thermal Simulations. Page 2 of 3 Job Description The Junior Research Fellow is required to conduct outdoor Experimental research, Simulation Photovoltaic Thermal, Research Experiments and in carrying out various activities under the project to complete the objectives and deliverables in time as per schedule. However, the candidate will be allowed to register for his/her Ph.D. degree in the Department if qualified. Desirable Knowledge COMSOL Multiphysics, Ansys for Photovoltaic Thermal Management, 3D Heat Transfer Modeling using any Thermal software, Solar Cell: Knowledge of different cooling techniques for solar cells, heat transfer of Photovoltaic Panel, Photovoltaic Thermal system, testing methods, instrumentation, outdoor experiments, current- voltage-power-temperature curves, and numerical analysis, journal paper writing, publications, MS Office etc is required. Desired qualifications Preference will be given to candidates having working experience relevant to the project on Solar Energy / Renewable Energy / in National Labatory / Academic Institute / Industry, or Journal Paper published in SCI/SCIE/Scopus Indexing journals. Also candidates having qualified GATE/CSIR-UGC JRF/National Eligibility Test-LS, COMSOL Multiphysics , Ansys, are preferred. Age limit 28 years Age relaxation Upper age is relaxable up to 5 years for SC/ST/Women and Physically handicapped candidates. Upper age is relaxable up to 3 years for OBC NCL candidates. Application Procedure Interested candidates should upload their application in the prescribed scanned format, including a photograph and educational qualifications, on or before 1st October, 2025 via the online Google Form https://forms.gle/Ror7mxuZbP2eYsmn6 In case the any difficulty in submission email to chandru3@nitkkr.ac.in Submission mode https://forms.gle/Ror7mxuZbP2eYsmn6 Enquiries in any difficulty in submission Dr. Chandrashekara M I PhD, Assistant Professor I Department of Mechanical Engineering , National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Kurukshetra 136 119, Haryana INDIA, M: 8059667507, Chandru3@nitkkr.ac.in How to Apply: Complete the application (as proforma attached/link provided) and submit via Google form along with the scanned copy of certificates, category, front page journal publication in a single pdf file. Google form: https://forms.gle/Ror7mxuZbP2eYsmn6 . The last date for submission of applications is 01.10.2025, and the interview will be conducted within one week thereafter. Selected candidates are required to join immediately, within a week. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on temporary basis, terminated anytime without assigning any reason and will be governed by the Administrative rules conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the position they intend to apply. 2. Advisement can also be Cancelled without assigning any reason or interview can be postponed, HRA subjected to decision of competent authority. Page 3 of 3 3. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications on and before 01.10.2025. 4. Candidate should have good bench work capability, technical journal paper writing skills and working knowledge of computer, Solar Cell. 5. The project duration is upto 14-Jul-2028 for position is co-terminus with the project. 6. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection and joining should be immediately within stipulated time. 7. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates only by email soon after the last date of application. 8. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s), publication at the time of interview for verification. 9. Appointment will be contractual in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions for similar cases. 10. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communications in this regard will be entertained. 11. Candidates will be informed by e-mail only about the interview date. So, candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their Applications. 12. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 13. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 14. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 15. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD program at Department of Mechanical Engineering, Energy Science & Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet certain eligibility requirements and also qualify the written examination and interview as per rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c