URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Detailed-Advertisement-Advt.No_.98.2024.pdf
Title: Detailed-Advertisement-Advt.No_.98.2024.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 610
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.98/2024 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellows (JRFs) Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for the recruitment of up to two (02) Junior Research Fellows (JRFs) on a purely contract basis to work in a Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India sponsored research project titled “Information Security Education and Awareness (ISEA) Project Phase-Ill" at the Department of Computer Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra. The details of the project and the post of recruitment are given below: Title of the Project : Information Security Education Awareness (ISEA) Phase-Ill Principal Investigator : Prof. Mayank Dave, Professor, Department of Computer Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra Name of the Post : Junior Research Fellow (JRF) Number of Posts : Up to 02 (Two) Monthly Emolument : INR 35,000 per month (consolidated) + Research grant of INR 20,000 per annum Post Duration : The position is co-terminus with the duration of the project (Project duration is 5 years). The Position is initially for 1 year and extendable until the tenure of the project. The position is purely on temporary basis which may be renewable for another year/s based upon the performance. Essential Qualifications : B.Tech./B.E. and M.Tech./M.E. in Computer Science and Engineering/Computer Engineering/Information Technology or equivalent with First class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks. Desirable Qualifications : Research experience in Information Security / Cyber Security, valid GATE/NET score. Other Benefits : The selected candidate will be encouraged to join and complete Ph.D. at NIT Kurukshetra in area of Information Security/Cyber Security. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet eligibility requirements as per the rules and regulations of NIT Kurukshetra. Page 1 of 2 Page 2 of 2 Application Procedure : Eligible and Interested candidates should send their application along with the following: (i) Completely filled in application form in the attached format. (ii) Detailed CV with particulars of prior research experience, publications, if any. (iii) Self-Attested Copy of all degree certificates A single .pdf file with Email subject line “Application for JRF – Your Full Name” be addressed to mdave@nitkkr.ac.in on or before 31 January, 2025. Applications sent to any other email address will not be considered. Terms and Conditions: ● No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. ● The appointment will be purely a project-based temporary position as per the Institute's terms and conditions for similar cases. ● Mere, possessing the prescribed qualification does not ensure that the candidate will be called for the Interview. The Candidates will be shortlisted on the basis of merit and need of the project. ● Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communications in this regard will be entertained. ● The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of the project subject to satisfactory performance. ● The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. ● The candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. ● Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, the candidate must provide valid e-mail IDs in their Applications. ● The upper age limit for JRF shall be 35 years as on the date 31 January, 2025. Age relaxation will be as per GoI norms. ● The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of the information, other documents, and photographs submitted. ● The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. Sd/- Registrar Incharge