URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Advt.No_.25.2025.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.25.2025.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 339
--------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.25/2025 Recruitment of Research Interns Applications are invited on prescribed format for the post of Research Intern for Crushaders Tech Solution LLP, Bhubaneswar based IT company sponsored, Research project entitled “Automation of Social Media Engagement and Reputation Management for Optimal Market Spread” at the Institute for 1 year (extended up to two years). The application form and the details of all educational qualifications are available on Institute website http://www.nitkkr.ac.in. Duly filled and signed application form along with self- attested scanned B.Tech mark-sheets of relevant semesters, relevant experience certificates and necessary documents must be submitted in a single PDF file by email to himansu.pattanayak@nitkkr.ac.in on or before 4th November, 2025 with subject titled as "Application for the post of Research Intern". Applications received after said date will be not considered. Eligibility Criteria: Sr. No. Post Qualification and Experience No. of Posts I Duration Consolidated Pay (Per Month) I. Research Intern B.Tech. (CO/IT) 3rd/4th year Student of NIT Kurukshetra (Preferably 3rd year) Desirable specialization: AI/ML/NLP, Web development, Web Scraping and Web Crawling. 2 Posts 1 year (extended up to two years) Rs.5,000/- p.m. Note: 1. Candidates having minimum aggregate First Class/CGPA 8.0 in B.E./B. Tech (CO/IT) can only apply. 2. The above positions are purely contractual for1 year (extended up to two years). 3. The last date for receiving applications is 4th November, 2025. Applications received after the last date will not be considered. 4. The list of shortlisted candidates will be displayed on the institute website on 11th November, 2025. 5. Interview/Test for the shortlisted candidates will be held on 17th November, 2025 (tentative date). 6. An applicant has to ensure the authenticity of information provided in support of experience, other documents and photograph. 7. The qualification and experience may be relaxed at any point of time by the Institute for otherwise exceptional candidates. 8. List of selected candidates will be displayed on the institute website within one week after the interview is held. Sd/- Registrar I/c