URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Advt.No_.08.2025-SSR_SERB_Internship.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.08.2025-SSR_SERB_Internship.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 485
--------------------------------------------------
Page 1 of 2 The intern’s progress will be assessed each month by appropriate Principal Investigator : Communication Monthly Emolument : be provided accommodation on payment basis Essential ns : ar of their PG or Final year of UG are ECE/VLSI/Mechanical); M. Tech (VLSI/ECE/ Desirable n : terials and : tes should send their application in the prescribed tion form through e-mail is NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA - 136119 Advt.No.08/2025 Advertisement for Student Internship under SSR-SERB Applications are invited from the Indian nationals for one post of Student Internship under SSR-SERB. The details of the project and the post are given below: Title of the Project : Development of Layered MXene Heterostructure for Hydrogen Storage: High capacity sustainable Material Post : One post (1) Student Internship Job duration : 2 Months (8 weeks) - temporary committee following SERB project guidelines. If the progress is not satisfactory, the internship is liable to be terminated. Dr. Shweta Meena, Department of Electronics & Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra 5000/- per month The student may subject to availability. In case of unavailability of accommodation, the student will have to arrange their accommodation and meet all other living expenses on their own The students in the final ye Qualificatio encouraged to apply. Branches: B.Tech. ( Materials Science); M.Sc. (Electronics/Physics/Chemistry) Good communication and writing skills and basics of ma Qualificatio Application electronic devices Interested candida Procedure format including photograph and signed copy of educational qualifications, and a statement of interest to Dr. Shweta Meena (PI) by e-mail on or before 25th April 2025. Address to send the applica mail2shwetameena@nitkkr.ac.in erms and Conditions: mporary basis and will be governed by the administrative conditions of erview shall ensure that they are eligible for the e a letter of authentication from their Supervisor/Head of the er the T The position is purely on te Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidates before appearing for the int position they intend to apply. 2. The applicants should produc Department / Head of the Institute indicating their association with the Institute and “No Objection Certificate (NOC)” for allowing their student to undergo internship, if selected. 3. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 4. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon aft last date of application. Page 2 of 2 ong with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience unicated to appear in the interview and no other ticity of information, other documents and right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 5. Candidate shall bring al certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 6. Appointment will be contractual in nature. 7. Only short-listed candidates will be comm communication in this regard will be entertained. 8. The applicant will be responsible for the authen photographs submitted. 9. The Institute reserves the Sd/- Registrar I/c