URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Frequently_Asked_Questions.pdf
Title: Frequently_Asked_Questions.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 479
--------------------------------------------------
Frequently Asked Questions 1. Please explain the ways of recruiting students from the campus? Recruitment process is done by following ways in the institute: ● Hiring 6th Semester UG students for internship and then offering PPOs according to their performance. ● Participating in the campus placement drive that goes around throughout the year. 2. When does the placement program take place? Most of the organizations start visiting campus from May - June for both hiring pre-final year (16 weeks to 20 weeks’ internship) and final year students. 3. What kind of information do students expect in PPTs and/or Company brochures? A Pre-Placement Talk or a brochure provided by the firm should ideally contain the following: i. Profile and reputation of the company. ii. Locations of posting. iii. Career roles and responsibilities offered in different types of profiles iv. Compensation packages 4. How well is the campus equipped for conducting presentations and the placement process? The campus is equipped with a Senate Hall, presentation facilities, Computer labs (LAN connected) as well as multimedia and projection facilities. Conference rooms, presentation rooms, etc. can also be arranged if required. 5. Is it possible to conduct placement process off-campus? Can recruitments be done without having to come to the campus? Yes. For an Off-campus drive, the concerned placement coordinator, which shall be allotted to organization once you show interest, would take permission from T&P cell and also consent from the students interested for that drive. However, we'd highly appreciate if the firm visits our campus for the recruitments, for we are known for hospitality and we'd love to showcase the same. 6. What steps students need to follow in the placement process? The steps that students need to follow are: ● Communicate your interest in being a part of the placement process to the T&P Cell. ● Maintain discipline during the placement drive. ● Attend complete placement drive as per PCC and T&P cell guidance. ● On-Time submission of Resume/Applications. 7. On what basis is the slot assigned to a company? Slotting is done subject to the following parameters: ● Work profile ● Compensation package ● Career Prospects ● Student Intake ● Past relationship with NIT Kurukshetra 8. Can a student apply to more than one company once he/she is placed? No. The training and placement Cell has implemented “One student, one job” policy wherein a student is not allowed to sit for further placement session once he/she is placed. However, all the students would be eligible to sit for further companies provided 80% of the eligible students of the particular branch are placed, which we term as “Second round”. For PSUs, the percentage rolls down to 60% of the eligible students for second round of placement session. 9. Is there any fee associated with participating in the placement drive? No. There is no fee associated with the registration or the placement process.