URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Advt.No_.18.2025-1.pdf
Title: Advt.No_.18.2025-1.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 669
--------------------------------------------------
Page 1 of 2 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (Under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India) KURUKSHETRA-136119 Advt.No.18/2024 Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the research project funded by ANRF Applications in the prescribed format are invited from Indian Nationals for one post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for a ANRF sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post of recruitment are given below: Position Junior Research Fellow (JRF) No. of Position(s) 01 Project Title "SmileScope: Enhancing Early Autism Diagnosis Through Digital Behavioral Phenotyping " Principal Investigator Dr. Pratishtha Verma; Department of Computer engineering, NIT Kurukshetra; Email: pratishthaverma@nitkkr.ac.in Tenure of Project 3 Years Essential Qualification B.Tech. and M.Tech. or equivalent degree in Computer Science and Engineering/ Computer Engineering/ Information Technology or equivalent with First class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks. Desirable Qualification  Experience with deep learning frameworks such as PyTorch or TensorFlow in the domain of computer vision. Prior experience in Python programming is highly desirable.  Candidate with valid GATE and NET score is desirable.  Candidate with B.Tech. & M.Tech. in Computer Engineering/CSE is desirable. Age & Relaxation As per the norms of the Govt. of India/DST-ANRF for JRF recruitment. Fellowship [₹ 37000 (in 1st & 2nd Year) and ₹ 42000 (in 3rd Year)] per month + HRA. Other Benefits Candidate selected for the JRF may register for a PHD if eligibility conditions as set by the institute are met by him/her. Application Procedure Last Date & Time Interested candidates should email a single PDF containing the following documents: 1. Curriculum Vitae (CV) 2. GATE/NET score card 3. Self-attested copies of all mark sheets and certificates starting from the 10th class 4. Proof of work experience (if any) The email should be sent to the Principal Investigator (PI) at pratishthaverma@nitkkr.ac.in and pratishthaverma975@gmail.com on or before 20.08.2025 by 5:00 p.m. Candidates must mention “Application for JRF-Your Name” in the subject line of the email. Page 2 of 2 Note Shortlisted candidates will be informed of the date of the interview. Mere possession of minimum qualification does not guarantee an invitation to the interview. Candidates will be shortlisted based on their merit and as per the requirement of the project. Terms and Conditions: The position is purely on a temporary basis and will be governed by the administrative conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. 1. Candidate should have good bench work capability, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computers. 2. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of interest on or before 20.08.2025 by 5:00 p.m. at email: pratishthaverma@nitkkr.ac.in. 3. The project duration is 3 years which is co-terminus with the project. 4. Candidates should have good data analysis, technical writing skills and working knowledge of computer. 5. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 6. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. 7. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. 8. Appointment will be contractual in nature. 9. Only short-listed candidates will be communicated to appear in the interview and no other communication in this regard will be entertained. 10. Candidates will be informed by e-mail about the interview date. So, candidates must provide valid e-mail IDs in their application. 11. The position is temporary and is extendable till the completion of project subject to satisfactory performance. 12. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. 13. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason. 14. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD program at NIT Kurukshetra. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet eligibility requirements as per the rules and regulation of NIT-Kurukshetra. Sd/- Registrar I/c