URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/All-Hostels-f.pdf
Title: All-Hostels-f.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 2814
--------------------------------------------------
Hostel Name: Abhimanyu Bhawan (H-1) Hostel Overview  Abhimanyu Bhawan has capacity of 228 students. Total 76 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are triple seated). Abhimanyu Bhawan is triple-storey building, in which twoblocks have been made, which are divided into (A&B) block respectively.  Each room provided with 3 no. LAN connection for accessing the internet.  Abhimanyu Bhawan has dining hall, 1 common room& well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Abhimanyu Bhawan have 30 CCTV cameras for hostel security.  Abhimanyu bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & washrooms and also 2 mali are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in big LED TV, News Paper is available and T.T. Table, Carom Board, wi-fi connection& Chess Board is available for students.  In hostel premises one badminton court are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students. Contact us: 74043-92231 E-Mail abhimanyubhawan@gmail.com Hostel Name: Bhishma Bhawan (H-2) Hostel Overview  Bhishma Bhawan has capacity of 246 students. Total 82 rooms are available for occupancy (82 rooms are triple seated and 3 rooms are Single Seated). Bhishma Bhawan is triple-storey building, in which two blocks have been made, which are divided into (A & B) block respectively.  Each room provided with 3 no. LAN connection for accessing the internet.  Bhishma Bhawan has a dining hall, common room & well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate in three shifts & and also a night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Bhishma Bhawan has 30 CCTV cameras for hostel security.  Bhishma Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & washrooms and also 2 gardeners are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in big 49” LED TV, News Paper is available and T.T. Table, Carom Board, Wi-Fi connection & Chess Board is available for students.  In hostel premises two badminton courts are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns 5no. Concrete benches have been provided for students. Contact us: 98961-71966 E-Mail: - hostel2nit@gmail.com Hostel Name: Chakradhar Bhawan (H-3) Hostel Overview  Chakradhar Bhawan has capacity of 248 students. Total 84 rooms are available for occupancy (82 rooms are triple seated and 2 rooms are Single Seated). Chakradhar Bhawan is triple-storey building, in which two blocks have been made, which are divided into (A & B) block respectively.  Each room provided with 3 no. LAN connection for accessing the internet.  Chakradhar Bhawan has a dining hall, 1 common room & well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate in three shifts & and also a night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Chakradhar Bhawan has 29 CCTV cameras for hostel security.  Chakradhar Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & washrooms and also 2 mails are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in big 43” LED TV, News Paper is available and T.T. Table, Carom Board, Wi-Fi connection & Chess Board is available for students.  In hostel premises two badminton courts (1cemented) are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns 5no. Concrete benches have been provided for students. Contact us: 99919-15145 E-Mail: - nithostel3@gmail.com Hostel Name: Dronacharya Bhawan (H-4) Hostel Overview  Dronacharya Bhawan has a capacity to accommodate 240 students. A total 240 rooms are available for occupancy and all the rooms are single seated. Dronacharya Bhawan has a three-storey building, in which three blocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B & C) block respectively.  Dronacharya Bhawan has one big dining hall, one common room well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09:00 AM to 10:00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchmen are provided for security of the hostel.  Dronacharya Bhawan has mess staffs & multi-tasking work (MTW) staffs, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also two gardeners (Mali) are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students has a big LED TV, Newspaper and Magazine facilities are available and Carom Board & Chess Board are also available for students.  In hostel premises one badminton Court is available for facilitating outdoor game to students. A volleyball court is also available in the Hostel. Contact us: Email: dronacharyabhawan4nit@gmail.com Hostel Name: Eklavya Bhawan (H-5) Hostel Overview  Eklavya Bhawan has a capacity to accommodate 240 students. A total 240 rooms are available for occupancy and all the rooms are single seated. Eklavya Bhawan has a three- storey building, in which three blocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B & C) block respectively.  Eklavya Bhawan has one big dining hall, one common room well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09:00 AM to 10:00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchmen are provided for security of the hostel.  Eklavya Bhawan has mess staffs & multi-tasking work (MTW) staffs, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also two gardeners (Mali) are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in big LED TV, Newspaper and Magazine are available and T.T. Table, Carom Board & Chess Board is available for students.  In hostel premises one concrete badminton courts are prepared for facilitating outdoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students. Contact us: Email: hostelno.05@gmail.com Hostel Name: Fanibhushan Bhawan (H-6) Hostel Overview  Fanibhushan Bhawan has capacity of 162 students. Total 162 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are single seated). Fanibhushan Bhawan is three – storey building, in which three blocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B & C) block respectively. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel From 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Fanibhushan Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular cleaning of corridors & washrooms and also 1 mali are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in big LED TV is available and T.T.Table, Carom Boards & Chess Board is available for Students.  In hostel premises one badminton courts are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students.  Air conditioner facility in dining hall, electric geyser, fire executor, water cooler and CCTV facilities are provided for students.  Washing machine facility is available in hostel premises for students.  Internet LAN facility is available in room of students. Contact us: 7404719500, 9671987198 Email: fanibhushanbhawanh6@gmail.com Hostel Name: Girivar Bhawan (H-7) Hostel Overview 1. Girivar Bhawan has 351single seater rooms. Hostel has four-story building divided into four blocks named as A, B, C and D. 2. Girivar Bhawan has a big dining hall, one big common room, one T.T. rooms surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview 1. For managing Hostel, One Hostel Supervisor & one Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel. 2. Girivar Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also 2 Mali are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview 1. A Big Common room available for students in which 50' inch LED TV, Newspaper and Magazine are available and also T.T. Table, Carom Board & Chess Board is available for providing indoor games facilities to students. 2. In hostel premises one concrete badminton courts are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel. 3. In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students. 4. In the hostel two parking shed are available on both sides of peripheral road, where students can park their bicycle. 5. Girivar Bhawan is well equipped with CCTV cameras for keeping surveillance. 6. For providing laundry service to students, four washing machines are installed in the hostel. 7. Electric Geyser is available in each floor washroom for providing hot water facility to students in winter session. Hostel Name: Harihar Bhawan (H-8) Hostel Overview  Harihar Bhawan has capacity of 350 students. Total 350 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are single seated). Harihar Bhawan is four-storey building, in which four blocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B, C & D) block respectively.  Harihar Bhawan has big dining hall, 1 common room, 2 T.T. rooms & well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Harihar Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also 2 Gardner are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  Common room available for students in big LED TV is available and T.T. Table, Pool Table, Carom Board & Chess Board is available for students.  In hostel premises two concrete badminton courts are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground and One basketball court is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students.  In the hostel two parking shed are available on both sides of peripheral road, where students can park their bicycle. Email: -h8hariharnitk@gmail.com Hostel Name: Indivar Bhawan (H-9) Hostel Overview  Indivar Bhawan has capacity of 350 students. Total 350 rooms are available for occupancy (all the rooms are single seated). Indivar Bhawan is four-storey building, in which four blocks have been made, which are divided into (A, B, C & D) block respectively.  Indivar Bhawan has big dining hall, 1 big common room, 2 T.T. rooms & well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing Hostel, One Hostel Supervisor & one Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Indivar bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this one sweeper is placed in each block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also 2 mali are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  A Big Common room available for students in which 50'" inch LED TV, Newspaper and Magazine are available and also T.T. Table, Carom Board & Chess Board is available for providing indoor games facilities to students.  In hostel premises two concrete badminton courts are prepared for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students.  In the hostel two parking shed are available on both sides of peripheral road, where students can park their bicycle.  Indivar bhawan is well equiped with CCTV cameras for keeping suveillance.  A canteen is available in the indivar bhawan for refreshment, which provides facilities to students upto 10.00 PM.  For providing laundry service to students, four washing machines are installed in the hostel.  Electric Geyser is available in each floor washroom for providing hot water facility to students in winter session. Hostel Name: Visvesvaraya Bhawan (H-10) Hostel Overview  Visvesvaraya Bhawan has capacity of 1126 students. Total rooms available for occupancy (Single Seater room = 1028 No., Double Seater room 19 No., Triple Seater room 20 No.) Visvesvaraya Bhawan is five-storey building, in which there are two blocks (Block A and Block B).  Visvesvaraya Bhawan has two big dining halls, 1 common room, 1 T.T. room, 1 gymnasium and well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing the hostel, 2 Hostel Supervisors and 3 Assistant Hostel Supervisors are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate and night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Visvesvaraya Bhawan has mess staff and MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition, one sweeper is placed in each floor for regular cleaning of corridors and washrooms. There are 2 gardeners (Maalees) available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  There is a Common Room in which a big LED TV, T.T. Table, Carom Board and Chess Board are available for students.  In hostel premises three concrete badminton courts are there for facilitating indoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns, Concrete benches have been provided for students. Hostel Name: Vivekananda Bhawan (H-11) Hostel Overview  Vivekananda Bhawan has capacity of 347 students (B-Block). Total 204 rooms are available for occupancy.  Vivekananda Bhawan has capacity of 70Family accommodation &30 Guest rooms (A- Block). Total 100 rooms are available for occupancy.  Vivekananda Bhawan is Six-storey building, which are divided into (A & B) block respectively. Lifts facilities are available in both block.  Vivekananda Bhawan has 1 dining hall, 3 common room& well surrounded by beautiful green lawns. Hostel Staff Overview  For managing, Hostel Supervisor & Assistant Hostel Supervisor are available in the Hostel from 09.00 AM to 10.00 PM. Security guards at the hostel gate & night watchman are provided for security of the hostel.  Vivekananda Bhawan has mess staff & MTW staff, who are available for providing meal facilities to students on regular mess timings. In addition to this 05 sweeper is placed in both block for regular cleaning of corridors & Washrooms and also 2 Mali are available for maintaining hostel lawn. Hostel Facilities Overview  AC equipped Common rooms are available for students with TV, Newspapers and Magazinesfor interested readers and T.T. Table, Carom Board & Chess Board are also available for students for recreational purpose.  In hostel premises one badminton court is prepared for facilitating outdoor game to students. A volleyball ground is also available in the Hostel.  In the hostel lawns Concrete benches have been provided for students.  Four Washing machine are available for laundry purpose. Contact us: 01744-233191 Email:h11@nitkkr.ac.in