URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Brochure-STC_NIT-KKR.pdf
Title: Brochure-STC_NIT-KKR.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 805
--------------------------------------------------
One Week On-line Short Term Course (STC) on Applications & Challenges in Industrial and Manufacturing Operations: (ACIMO-24) October 17-21, 2024 About NIT Kurukshetra National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Haryana (founded as Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra in 1963) was conferred upon the status of Deemed University on June 26, 2002. Institute has B. Tech, M.Tech, MBA and MCA Courses in various disciplines with annual intake of about 1500 students. Institute also offers excellent facilities for advanced research in the emerging areas of Science and Technology leading to Ph.D. degree. The institute has well qualified and dedicated faculty along with finest supporting staff, laboratories and other infrastructure. The infrastructure is geared to enable the Institute to turn out technical personnel of a high quality. About Mechanical Engineering Department Department of Mechanical Engineering, NIT Kurukshetra has been offering Under-graduate Program (B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering & Production and Industrial Engineering), Post-graduate Program in Production and Industrial Engineering, Design Engineering and Thermal Engineering. The course curriculum has been designed to be compatible with the existing and emerging needs of the industry. The autonomy of the Institute is a privilege to the department in terms of flexibility to modify and revise courses/syllabi at different time intervals to cater contemporary needs to the needs of the Industry. The department has established state-of-the-art facilities in various domains of mechanical and industrial engineering. One Week On-line Short Term Course on Applications & Challenges in Industrial and Manufacturing Operations: (ACIMO-24) October 17-21, 2024 An Initiative of National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119, India Organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, Haryana – 136119, India Phone: +91-1744-233447, Web: www.nitkkr.ac.in Patron Prof. B. V. Ramana Reddy Hon’ble Director NIT Kurukshetra Chairman Prof. Hari Singh Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering Coordinator Dr. Dilbagh Panchal Dr. Manoj Kumar Sinha Dr. Ranjeet Kumar Organizing Committee All faculty and Staff of Mechanical Engineering Department, NIT Kurukshetra Contact Persons Dr. Dilbagh Panchal Assistant Professor (Grade-I) Department of Mechanical Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, Haryana – 136119, India Email: panchald@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: 09639965310 Dr. Manoj Kumar Sinha Assistant Professor (Grade-I) Department of Mechanical Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Kurukshetra, Haryana – 136119, India Email: mksinha@nitkkr.ac.in Mob: 09718693607 About Online Short Term Course (E-STC) This STC aligns with the theme of providing a platform to expose the participants to the current and future challenges with their possible solutions, along with brushing up on the fundamentals of industrial operations and key manufacturing aspects. Lectures, exhaustive discussion, mutual interaction and idea sharing will certainly open an avenue to mitigating the ongoing and future industrial needs in more scientific ways. Objectives and Scope The present-day requirements of quality and durable products at competitive prices are the key challenges to the manufacturer. Quite often, the manufacturing level reflects the ability to adopt the new and upcoming industrial needs. The growth of a country primarily depends on the strength of the manufacturing sectors. Product realisation consists of detailed investigations of the industrial and manufacturing operations, which play a critical role in product realisation. The prime objective of this STC is to impart comprehensive knowledge of recent advances and developments in industrial and manufacturing practices. This STC will certainly enfold the mutually dependent realms to cater for the future needs of the manufacturing industries and to enable the participants to address various upcoming issues and challenges related to manufacturing processes and systems. Topics to be Covered  Recent Trends in Automotive Industries  Advancement in Metal Forming Processes  Advancement in Cutting Tool Technology  Design for Additive Manufacturing  AI in Industrial Automation  Supply Chain Trends in Industry 4.0 Era  MCDM Techniques and its Applications  Performance Analysis of Industrial Systems and many more………… Resource Persons/Speakers Faculties/Experts from IITs, NITs, IIITs and other premier Institutions/Organizations/Industries will deliver the lectures. Targeted Participants Faculty from engineering institutes, universities, research scholars, UG/PG students, and other educational institutes and employees of the industries. Number of Participants Number of participants is limited for this STC. Application will be accepted on first-cum-first serve basis. Important Dates Last date (Online Registration): 16-10-2024 Confirmation by E-mail: 17-10-2024 STC duration: 17-10-2024 to 21-10-2024 Registration Fee Details Participants Amount (in Rs.) Students (UG/PG/PhD) 350/- Participants from Academia/R&D Labs 400/- Participants from Industries 500/- Registration is compulsory for all the delegates. The registration fee is non-refundable. How to Apply The interested candidates must deposit the registration fee through SBI collect with the following procedure:  Go to SBI collect and choose Educational Institutions and Filter by selecting state as Haryana  Choose Director NIT Kurukshetra from Name of the Institutions and Select payment category as ACIMO-24  Generate the payment slip and attach it with the registration form available at the following link https://forms.gle/QWCDU5a4DKkCjyzy5 E-Certificate will be provided to those registered participants whose minimum attendance is 75% of this STC.