URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/GeM-Bidding-8587703.pdf
Title: GeM-Bidding-8587703.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 5132
--------------------------------------------------
बड ववरण/Bid Details बड बंद होने क तारख/समय /Bid End Date/Time 24-11-2025 18:00:00 बड खुलने क तारख/समय /Bid Opening Date/Time 24-11-2025 18:30:00 बड पेशकश वैधता (बंद होने क तारख से)/Bid Offer Validity (From End Date) 180 (Days) मं ालय/रा!य का नाम/Ministry/State Name Ministry Of Education वभाग का नाम/Department Name Department Of Higher Education संगठन का नाम/Organisation Name National Institute Of Technology (nit) काया%लय का नाम/Office Name Kurukshetra/haryana कुल मा ा/Total Quantity 2 व&तु 'ेणी /Item Category Industrial composite color 3D Printer (Q2) बडर का )यूनतम औसत वाष%क टन%ओवर (3 वष0 का) /Minimum Average Annual Turnover of the bidder (For 3 Years) 15 Lakh (s) मूल उपकरण िनमा%ता का औसत टन%ओवर (गत 3 वष0 का)/OEM Average Turnover (Last 3 Years) 40 Lakh (s) उ)हं/समान सेवा के िलए अपे56त वगत अनुभव के वष%/Years of Past Experience Required for same/similar service 1 Year (s) वष0 के अनुभव एवं टन%ओवर से एमएसई को छूट 9ा: है / MSE Exemption for Years Of Experience and Turnover Yes | Complete &टाट%अप के िलए अनुभव के वष0 और टन%ओवर से छूट 9दान क गई है / Startup Exemption for Years Of Experience and Turnover Yes | Complete व;ेता से मांगे गए द&तावेज़/Document required from seller Experience Criteria,Past Performance,Bidder Turnover,Certificate (Requested in ATC),OEM Authorization Certificate,OEM Annual Turnover,Additional Doc 1 (Requested in ATC) *In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Experience / Turnover Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded for evaluation by the buyer बड सं=या/Bid Number: GEM/2025/B/6890398 >दनांक /Dated: 14-11-2025 बड द&तावेज़ / Bid Document 1 / 10 Fया आप िनवदाकारH Iारा अपलोड >कए गए द&तावेज़H को िनवदा मJ भाग लेने वाले सभी िनवदाकारH को >दखाना चाहते हL? संदभ% मेनू है/Do you want to show documents uploaded by bidders to all bidders participated in bid? Yes (Documents submitted as part of a clarification or representation during the tender/bid process will also be displayed to other participated bidders after log in) बड लगाने क समय सीमा &वतः नहं बढ़ाने के िलए आवPयक बड क सं=या। / Minimum number of bids required to disable automatic bid extension 3 >दनH क सं=या, 5जनके िलए बड लगाने क समय-सीमा बढ़ाई जाएगी। / Number of days for which Bid would be auto-extended 3 ऑटो एFसटJशन अिधकतम >कतनी बार >कया जाना है। / Number of Auto Extension count 3 वगत 9दश%न /Past Performance 40 % बड से Uरवस% नीलामी स>;य >कया/Bid to RA enabled Yes Uरवस% नीलामी योVयता िनयम/RA Qualiﬁcation Rule H1-Highest Priced Bid Elimination वाष%क रखरखाव शुWक आवPयक / Annual Maintenance Charges Required Yes बड का 9कार/Type of Bid Two Packet Bid तकनीक मूWयांकन के दौरान तकनीक &पYीकरण हेतु अनुमत समय /Time allowed for Technical Clarifications during technical evaluation 2 Days िनर6ण आवPयक (सूचीबZ िनर6ण 9ािधकरण /जेम के साथ पूव% पंजीकृत एजJिसयH Iारा)/Inspection Required (By Empanelled Inspection Authority / Agencies pre-registered with GeM) No मूWयांकन पZित/Evaluation Method Total value wise evaluation म]य&थता खंड/Arbitration Clause No सुलह खंड/Mediation Clause No बड ववरण/Bid Details ईएमड ववरण/EMD Detail एडवाईजर बLक/Advisory Bank State Bank of India ईएमड रािश/EMD Amount 116000 ईपीबीजी ववरण /ePBG Detail एडवाइजर बLक/Advisory Bank State Bank of India 2 / 10 ईपीबीजी 9ितशत (%)/ePBG Percentage(%) 5.00 ईपीबीजी क आवPयक अविध (माह) /Duration of ePBG required (Months). 62 (a). जेम क शत0 के अनुसार ईएमड छूट के इ`छुक बडर को संबंिधत केटेगर के िलए बड के साथ वैध समिथ%त द&तावेज़ 9&तुत करने है। एमएसई केटेगर के अंतग%त केवल व&तुओं के िलए विनमा%ता तथा सेवाओं के िलए सेवा 9दाता ईएमड से छूट के पा हL। aयापाUरयH को इस नीित के दायरे से बाहर रखा गया है।/EMD EXEMPTION: The bidder seeking EMD exemption, must submit the valid supporting document for the relevant category as per GeM GTC with the bid. Under MSE category, only manufacturers for goods and Service Providers for Services are eligible for exemption from EMD. Traders are excluded from the purview of this Policy. (b).ईएमड और संपादन जमानत रािश, जहां यह लागू होती है, लाभाथb के प6 मJ होनी चा>हए। / EMD & Performance securityshould be in favour of Beneficiary, wherever it is applicable. लाभाथb /Beneficiary : DIRECTOR Kurukshetra/haryana, Department of Higher Education, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Ministry of Education (Director Nit Kurukshetra) बोली वभाजन लागू नहं >कया गया/ Bid splitting not applied. एमआईआई खरद वरयता / MII Purchase Preference एमआईआई खरद वरयता / MII Purchase Preference Yes मेक इन इं>डया व;ेताओं को खरद मJ 9ाथिमकता, य>द उनका मूWय L1+X% तक क सीमा मJ है / Purchase Preference to MII sellers availabele upto price within L1+X% 20 मेक इन इं>डया खरद मJ 9ाथिमकता के िलए बड क मा ा का अिधकतम 9ितशत / Maximum Percentage of Bid quantity for MII purchase preference 50 साव%जिनक खरद (मेक-इन-इं>डया को 9ाथिमकता) आदेश 2017 के अनुसार केवल Fलास 1/Fलास 2 के &थानीय आपूित%कता%ओं को ह भागीदार क अनुमित है >दनांक 16.09.2020 (समय-समय पर संशोिधत एवं लागू) / Allow participation only from Class 1/Class 2 local suppliers as per the Public procurement(Preference to Make-in-india) order 2017 date 16.09.2020(as amended and applicable time to time) Yes, in compliance with the MII ORDER : DPIIT Order(as amended and applicable time to time) एमएसई खरद वरयता/MSE Purchase Preference एमएसई खरद वरयता/MSE Purchase Preference Yes सूhम और लघु उjम मूल उपकरण िनमा%ताओं को खरद मJ 9ाथिमकता, य>द उनका मूWय L1+X% तक क सीमा मJ हो / Purchase Preference to MSE OEMs available upto price within L1+X% 15 3 / 10 सूhम और लघु उjम को खरद मJ 9ाथिमकता के िलए बड क मा ा का अिधकतम 9ितशत / Maximum Percentage of Bid quantity for MSE purchase preference 25 1. If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest orders issued by Ministry of MSME, the bidder shall be exempted from the eligibility criteria of "Experience Criteria" as defined above subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. The bidder seeking exemption from Experience Criteria, shall upload the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption. 2. If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise (MSE) as per latest orders issued by Ministry of MSME, the bidder shall be exempted from the eligibility criteria of "Bidder Turnover" as defined above subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. If the bidder itself is MSE OEM of the offered products, it would be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria also subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. The bidder seeking exemption from Turnover, shall upload the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption. 3. If the bidder is a DPIIT registered Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the the eligibility criteria of "Experience Criteria" as defined above subject to their meeting of quality and technical specifications. The bidder seeking exemption from Experience Criteria, shall upload the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption. 4. If the bidder is a DPIIT registered Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the the eligibility criteria of "Bidder Turnover" as defined above subject to their meeting of quality and technical specifications. If the bidder is DPIIT Registered OEM of the offered products, it would be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria also subject to meeting of quality and technical specifications. The bidder seeking exemption from Turnover shall upload the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption. 5. The minimum average annual financial turnover of the bidder during the last three years, ending on 31st March of the previous financial year, should be as indicated above in the bid document. Documentary evidence in the form of certified Audited Balance Sheets of relevant periods or a certificate from the Chartered Accountant / Cost Accountant indicating the turnover details for the relevant period shall be uploaded with the bid. In case the date of constitution / incorporation of the bidder is less than 3-year-old, the average turnover in respect of the completed financial years after the date of constitution shall be taken into account for this criteria. 6. Experience Criteria: In respect of the filter applied for experience criteria, the Bidder or its OEM of the product offered in the bid {themselves or through reseller(s)} should have regularly, manufactured and supplied same or similar Category Products to any Central / State Govt Organization / PSU for number of Financial years as indicated above in the bid document before the bid opening date. Copies of relevant contracts and delivery acceptance certificates like CRAC to be submitted along with bid in support of having supplied some quantity during each of the Financial year. In case of bunch bids, the category of primary product having highest value should meet this criterion. 7. OEM Turn Over Criteria: The minimum average annual financial turnover of the OEM of the offered product during the last three years, ending on 31st March of the previous financial year, should be as indicated in the bid document. Documentary evidence in the form of certified Audited Balance Sheets of relevant periods or a certificate from the Chartered Accountant / Cost Accountant indicating the turnover details for the relevant period shall be uploaded with the bid. In case the date of constitution / incorporation of the OEM is less than 3 year old, the average turnover in respect of the completed financial years after the date of constitution shall be taken into account for this criteria. 8. Preference to Make In India products (For bids < 200 Crore):Preference shall be given to Class 1 local supplier as defined in public procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 as amended from time to time and its subsequent Orders/Notifications issued by concerned Nodal Ministry for specific Goods/Products. The minimum local content to qualify as a Class 1 local supplier is denoted in the bid document. If the bidder wants to avail the Purchase preference, the bidder must upload a certificate from the OEM regarding the percentage of the local content and the details of locations at which the local value addition is made along with their bid, failing which no purchase preference shall be granted. In case the bid value is more than Rs 10 Crore, the declaration relating to percentage of local content shall be certified by the statutory auditor or cost auditor, if the OEM is a company and by a practicing cost accountant or a chartered accountant for OEMs other than companies as per the Public Procurement (preference to Make-in -India) order 2017 dated 04.06.2020. Only Class-I and Class-II Local suppliers as per MII order dated 4.6.2020 will be eligible to bid. Non - Local suppliers as per MII order dated 04.06.2020 are not eligible to participate. However, eligible micro and small enterprises will be allowed to participate .The buyers are advised to refer the OM No.F.1/4/2021-PPD dated 18.05.2023. OM_No.1_4_2021_PPD_dated_18.05.2023 for compliance of Concurrent application of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises Order, 2012 and Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017. 9. Purchase preference will be given to MSEs having valid Udyam Registration and whose credentials are 4 / 10 validated online through Udyam Registration portal as defined in Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012 dated 23.03.2012 issued by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and its subsequent Orders/Notifications issued by concerned Ministry. If the bidder wants to avail themselves of the Purchase preference, the bidder must be the manufacturer / OEM of the offered product on GeM. Traders are excluded from the purview of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises and hence resellers offering products manufactured by some other OEM are not eligible for any purchase preference. In respect of bid for Services, the bidder must be the Service provider of the offered Service. Relevant documentary evidence in this regard shall be uploaded along with the bid in respect of the offered product or service and Buyer will decide eligibility for purchase preference based on documentary evidence submitted, while evaluating the bid. If L-1 is not an MSE and MSE Seller (s) has / have quoted price within L-1+ 15% (Selected by Buyer) of margin of purchase preference /price band defined in relevant policy, such MSE Seller shall be given opportunity to match L-1 price and contract will be awarded for 25% (selected by Buyer) percentage of total quantity. The buyers are advised to refer the OM No. F.1/4/2021-PPD dated 18.05.2023 OM_No.1_4_2021_PPD_dated_18.05.2023 for compliance of Concurrent application of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises Order, 2012 and Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017. Benefits of MSE will be allowed only if seller is validated on-line in GeM profile as well as validated and approved by Buyer after evaluation of documents submitted. 10. Past Performance: The Bidder or its OEM {themselves or through re-seller(s)} should have supplied same or similar Category Products for 40% of bid quantity, in at least one of the last three Financial years before the bid opening date to any Central / State Govt Organization / PSU. Copies of relevant contracts (proving supply of cumulative order quantity in any one financial year) to be submitted along with bid in support of quantity supplied in the relevant Financial year. In case of bunch bids, the category related to primary product having highest bid value should meet this criterion. 11. Reverse Auction would be conducted amongst all the technically qualified bidders except the Highest quoting bidder. The technically qualified Highest Quoting bidder will not be allowed to participate in RA. However, H-1 will also be allowed to participate in RA in following cases: i. If number of technically qualified bidders are only 2 or 3. ii. If Buyer has chosen to split the bid amongst N sellers, and H1 bid is coming within N. iii. In case Primary product of only one OEM is left in contention for participation in RA on elimination of H-1. iv. If L-1 is non-MSE and H-1 is eligible MSE and H-1 price is coming within price band of 15% of Non-MSE L-1 v. If L-1 is non-MII and H-1 is eligible MII and H-1 price is coming within price band of 20% of Non-MII L-1 Industrial Composite Color 3D Printer ( 2 pieces ) (;मशः 'ेणी 1 और 'ेणी 2 के &थानीय आपूित%कता% के kप मJ अह%ता 9ा: करने के िलए आवPयक/Minimum 50% and 20% Local Content required for qualifying as Class 1 and Class 2 Local Supplier respectively) तकनीक विशYयाँ /Technical Specifications * जेम केटेगर विशY के अनुसार / As per GeM Category Speciﬁcation ववरण/Speciﬁcation विशY का नाम /Specification Name बड के िलए आवPयक अनुमत मूWय /Bid Requirement (Allowed Values) Generic Printing Technology Augmented Polymer Deposition, Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF), Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM) Technical Parameter Build Size (WxDxH) 228mm x 200mm x 300mm, 310 x 200 x 200 mm, 370mm x 390mm x 450mm, 300 x 200 x 150 mm, 300 mm x 300 mm x 350 mm, 200 mm x 200 mm x 200 mm, 500 mm x 500 mm x 500 mm Annual Maintenance Warranty of required product 3 Year Annual Maintenance Charges Duration (Post Warranty) 2 Year Annual Maintenance Charges Frequenecy Annually 5 / 10 *Warranty displayed under the AMC/CMC Details section will supersede the warranty displayed under the catalog specfication Additional Specification Parameters - Industrial Composite Color 3D Printer ( 2 pieces ) Specification Parameter Name Bid Requirement (Allowed Values) As per BATC as mentioned in buyer added bid specific additional terms and conditions document. * Bidders offering must also comply with the additional specification parameters mentioned above. परेषती/Uरपो>टmग अिधकार तथा मा ा/Consignees/Reporting Officer and Quantity ;.सं./S.N o. परेषती/Uरपो>टmग अिधकार /Consignee Reporting/Officer पता/Address मा ा /Quantity >डलीवर के >दन/Delivery Days 1 Kamlesh Choudhary 136119,Room No. -304, 2nd Floor, Golden Jubilee Administrative Building, National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra 2 30 Special terms and conditions-Version:1 effective from 01-01-2023 for category Industrial composite color 3D Printer 1. All Procuring entities are advised to comply to the Order, no: Misc.1/03/2021-CDN (e-31937), from Department of Science and Technology" as the category “ Industrial composite color 3D Printer"is considered covered under the said order ;ेता Iारा जोड़ गई बड क वशेष शतo/Buyer Added Bid Specific Terms and Conditions 1. Generic Actual delivery (and Installation & Commissioning (if covered in scope of supply)) is to be done at following address Tribology Lab Department of Mechanical Engg. Academic Building NIT Campus NIT Kurukshetra, Haryana-136119 . 2. Generic Bidders are advised to check applicable GST on their own before quoting. Buyer will not take any responsibility in this regards. GST reimbursement will be as per actuals or as per applicable rates (whichever is lower), subject to the maximum of quoted GST %. 6 / 10 3. Generic Installation, Commissioning, Testing, Configuration, Training (if any - which ever is applicable as per scope of supply) is to be carried out by OEM / OEM Certified resource or OEM authorised Reseller. 4. Generic Manufacturer Authorization:Wherever Authorised Distributors/service providers are submitting the bid, Authorisation Form /Certificate with OEM/Original Service Provider details such as name, designation, address, e-mail Id and Phone No. required to be furnished along with the bid 5. Generic While generating invoice in GeM portal, the seller must upload scanned copy of GST invoice and the screenshot of GST portal confirming payment of GST. 6. Scope of Supply Scope of supply (Bid price to include all cost components) : Supply Installation Testing Commissioning of Goods and Training of operators and providing Statutory Clearances required (if any) 7. OEM IMPORTED PRODUCTS: In case of imported products, OEM or Authorized Seller of OEM should have a registered office in India to provide after sales service support in India. The certificate to this effect should be submitted. 8. Service & Support Dedicated /toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support : BIDDER/OEM must have Dedicated/toll Free Telephone No. for Service Support. 9. Service & Support Escalation Matrix For Service Support : Bidder/OEM must provide Escalation Matrix of Telephone Numbers for Service Support. 10. Inspection Pre-dispatch inspection at Seller premises (Fee/Charges to be borne by the BUYER): Before dispatch, the goods will be inspected by Buyer / Consignee or their Authorized Representative or by Nominated External Inspection Agency (independently or jointly with Buyer or Consignee as decided by the Buyer) at Seller premises (or at designated place for inspection as declared / communicated by the seller) for their compliance to the contract specifications. Fee/Charges taken by the External inspection Agency and any external laboratories testing charges shall be borne by the Buyer. For in-house testing, the Sellers will provide necessary facilities free of cost. Seller shall notify the Buyer through e-mail about readiness of goods for pre-dispatch inspection and Buyer will notify the Seller about the Authorized Representative/ Nominated External Inspection Agency and the date for testing. The goods would be dispatched to consignee only after clearance in pre-dispatch inspection. Consignee's right of rejection as per GTC in respect of the goods finally received at his location shall in no way be limited or waived by reason of the goods having previously been inspected, tested and passed by Buyer/ Consignee or its Nominated External Inspection Agency prior to the goods' shipment. While bidding, the sellers should take into account 7 days for inspection from the date of email offering the goods for inspection. Any delay in inspection beyond 7 days shall be on the part of the buyer and shall be regularised without Liquidated Damages. When there is requirement of submission the advance sample, the seller shall inform the buyer promptly through emails about the date of submission of sample to the buyer nominated Inspection agency. 11. Certificates Bidder's offer is liable to be rejected if they don't upload any of the certificates / documents sought in the Bid document, ATC and Corrigendum if any. 7 / 10 12. Warranty Warranty period of the supplied products shall be 3 years from the date of final acceptance of goods or after completion of installation, commissioning & testing of goods (if included in the scope of supply), at consignee location. OEM Warranty certificates must be submitted by Successful Bidder at the time of delivery of Goods. The seller should guarantee the rectification of goods in case of any break down during the guarantee period. Seller should have well established Installation, Commissioning, Training, Troubleshooting and Maintenance Service group in INDIA for attending the after sales service. Details of Service Centres near consignee destinations are to be uploaded along with the bid. 13. Warranty Timely Servicing / rectification of defects during warranty period: After having been notified of the defects / service requirement during warranty period, Seller has to complete the required Service / Rectification within 7 days time limit. If the Seller fails to complete service / rectification with defined time limit, a penalty of 0.5% of Unit Price of the product shall be charged as penalty for each week of delay from the seller. Seller can deposit the penalty with the Buyer directly else the Buyer shall have a right to recover all such penalty amount from the Performance Security (PBG).Cumulative Penalty cannot exceed more than 10% of the total contract value after which the Buyer shall have the right to get the service / rectification done from alternate sources at the risk and cost of the Seller besides forfeiture of PBG. Seller shall be liable to re-imberse the cost of such service / rectification to the Buyer. 14. Forms of EMD and PBG Bidders can also submit the EMD with Account Payee Demand Draft in favour of Director, NIT Kurukshetra payable at Kurukshetra . Bidder has to upload scanned copy / proof of the DD along with bid and has to ensure delivery of hardcopy to the Buyer within 5 days of Bid End date / Bid Opening date. 15. Forms of EMD and PBG Successful Bidder can submit the Performance Security in the form of Account Payee Demand Draft also (besides PBG which is allowed as per GeM GTC). DD should be made in favour of Director, NIT Kurukshetra payable at Kurukshetra . After award of contract, Successful Bidder can upload scanned copy of the DD in place of PBG and has to ensure delivery of hard copy to the original DD to the Buyer within 15 days of award of contract. 16. Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC Buyer Added text based ATC clauses 1. The technical specification of the requirement is as per the buyer's added bid-specific ATC document. 2. Sellers are requested to submit the EMD (if applicable) only through Demand Draft in favour of the Direc tor, NIT Kurukshetra, or through SBI Collect (Search SBI Collect on Google → SBI Collect → Educational Insti tution → Director, NIT Kurukshetra → Tender Fee/EMD/performance Security (Category) → Payment). . 17. Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file. अ&वीकरण/Disclaimer 8 / 10 The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity / restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and / or terms and conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is / are incorporated by the Buyer regarding following, the bid and resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of bidding process without any notice:- 1. Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order / Office Memorandum issued by DPIIT in this regard. 2. Seeking EMD submission from bidder(s), including via Additional Terms & Conditions, in contravention to exemption provided to such sellers under GeM GTC. 3. Publishing Custom / BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any Category item bunched with it. 4. Creating BoQ bid for single item. 5. Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name. 6. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders. 7. Floating / creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services. 8. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for attached categories, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries) 9. Mandating foreign / international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without specifying equivalent Indian Certification / standards. 10. Seeking experience from specific organization / department / institute only or from foreign / export experience. 11. Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories. 12. Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy. 13. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses. 14. Asking for any Tender fee / Bid Participation fee / Auction fee in case of Bids / Forward Auction, as the case may be. 15. Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined by buyer in system generated bid template as indicated above in the Bid Details section, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase Preference sections of the bid, unless otherwise allowed by GeM GTC. 16. In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added additional scope of work/ additional terms and conditions/or any other document. If buyer needs more items along with the main item, the same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogs or bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope of Work. Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller within 4 days of bid publication on GeM. Buyer is duty bound to reply to all such representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to such representations. Additional Clause For Annual Maintenance Charges 1.AMC charges to be indicated as percentage of cost of Product/Equipment quoted for each year after the warranty period. 2. GST shall be included in the AMC Charges quoted. 3. The AMC functionality shall be available in bid only and no direct RA shall be applicable. In case of bid to RA decrement rules shall be applicable on total price inclusive of AMC charges. 3.1 Buyer shall indicate number of years of warranty by selecting option of 1- 10 Years available in the field depending on warranty parameter applicable in category parameters for the equipment. The Seller while participating in Bid/RA will get fields to indicate AMC charges as percentage depending on number of years of AMC selected by Buyer. The following shall be applicable If 5 year AMC selected. 9 / 10 3.1.1 AMC charges for first year after warranty period – Percentage to be indicated- A1. 3.1.2 AMC charges for second year after warranty period – Percentage to be indicated A2. 3.1.3 AMC charges for third year after warranty period – Percentage to be indicated A3. 3.1.4 AMC charges for fourth year after warranty period – Percentage to be indicated A4. 3.1.5 AMC charges for 5th year after warranty period – Percentage to be indicated A5. 3.2 The calculation of AMC Charges shall take in to account of number of years of warranty and duration of AMC as specified while creating bid. 3.3 AMC charges to be indicated for each subsequent year should be same or higher than preceding year. 3.4 The AMC charges shall be offered within range of 3 to 25% of cost of equipment. 4.Since AMC charges are to be paid only later for each year during AMC period , applicable performance guarantee amount after placement of contract shall be based on the cost of product/equipment and not on basis of cost of equipment along with AMC Charges. 5. Performance bank guarantee applicable for AMC is to be submitted at start of the AMC and shall be applicable as 5% on the total contract value including AMC Charges The PBG submitted after award of contract shall be released only after new PBG for the AMC period is submitted and accepted by buyer/consignee after due verification. Bank guarantee for AMC is to remain valid till completion of AMC period plus one year .The bank guarantee for AMC shall be submitted to buyer directly. 6. In case of splitting of quantity product/equipment cost and AMC charges offered by L-1 in the evaluated cost shall be matched by higher quoting eligible bidders on one to one basis .The equipment cost shall be matched and AMC charges shall be matched year to year. 7. The AMC Contract shall be an offline contract to be handled by buyer. The payment of AMC will be made on AMC frequency (as indicated above) basis after satisfactory completion of said period, duly certified by end user and scope of AMC will be as per para 1 above. All GeM Sellers / Service Providers are mandated to ensure compliance with all the applicable laws / acts / rules including but not limited to all Labour Laws such as The Minimum Wages Act, 1948, The Payment of Wages Act, 1936, The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976, The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 etc. Any non-compliance will be treated as breach of contract and Buyer may take suitable actions as per GeM Contract. यह बड सामा)य शत0 के अंतग%त भी शािसत है /This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions जेम क सामा)य शत0 के खंड 26 के संदभ% मJ भारत के साथ भूिम सीमा साझा करने वाले देश के बडर से खरद पर 9ितबंध के संबंध मJ भारत के साथ भूिम सीमा साझा करने वाले देश का कोई भी बडर इस िनवदा मJ बड देने के िलए तभी पा होगा जब वह बड देने वाला स6म 9ािधकार के पास पंजीकृत हो।बड मJ भाग लेते समय बडर को इसका अनुपालन करना होगा और कोई भी गलत घोषणा >कए जाने व इसका अनुपालन न करने पर अनुबंध को तqकाल समा: करने और कानून के अनुसार आगे क कानूनी कार%वाई का आधार होगा।/In terms of GeM GTC clause 26 regarding Restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares a land border with India, any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority. While participating in bid, Bidder has to undertake compliance of this and any false declaration and non-compliance of this would be a ground for immediate termination of the contract and further legal action in accordance with the laws. ---ध)यवाद/Thank You--- 10 / 10