URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Build-a-Relationship-converted_1.pdf
Title: Build-a-Relationship-converted_1.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 409
--------------------------------------------------
Build a Relationship Over the past decade, business has changed vividly. As a consequence, workforce skills and necessities have also been changed. There are jobs today that didn’t exist ten years ago and, in the years to come there will be new roles with new requirements that don’t exist now. Industry and academic leaders revealed that the very skills needed for workforce success are the same skills graduating student’s lack — such as analysis and problem solving, collaboration and teamwork, business-context communication, and flexibility, agility, and adaptability. By collaborating with NIT Kurukshetra, the industry gets an access to exuberant talent and the institute, in turn has access to the latest cutting-edge facilities and research adopted in the industry. We propose the following framework that could be adopted by the companies while collaborating with the institute.: Industry Visits To provide hands on experience of the functioning of latest equipment and processes in the industries. This will help the students to understand the latest trends and technologies as per industry requirements which will enable them to cope with the latest challenges of work as per the society requirements. Faculty & Staff Exchange It has been recognized that the involvement of industry in academic institutions can help to orient research and education activities towards the needs of society, bring expertise to support knowledge transfer activities, and signal willingness to introduce innovation-oriented approaches in all activities. Student Internships and Placements Enter into MoUs with Industries for On-Job Training/internships and campus placements. These MoUs with the reputed organisations across globe will result into better industrial training and placements of the students. Focused Workshops and Training Programmes Focussed Workshops and Training programmes need to be organised for periodically updating the students about the latest developments in the industry. This will impart required technical and soft skills amongst the students leading to global employability. Student Societies & Clubs Many firms participate in the student learning process by establishing a relationship with one or more of our student societies & clubs. This type of contact helps your firm create visibility on-campus and offers you a unique opportunity for interacting with students by organizing or sponsoring case contests, Tech. events and games, business plan competitions in collusion with the various societies, corporate Relations and Placement Cell. Share Your Details Name: * Email: * Company: * Phone no: Kindly share your area of interest: Submit (*Our I&IR team will reach you) (Above details response will be send to Tpo@nitkkr.ac.in)