URL: https://nitkkr.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Summer-intern-advertisement.pdf
Title: Summer-intern-advertisement.pdf
Description: 
Word Count: 349
--------------------------------------------------
1 2 3 4 Advt. No. 5 8 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KURUKSHETRA-136119 Job Description Age limit 7 Terms and Conditions: Recruitment of Summer Intern under SSR scheme of SERB project Applications are invited from the MSc Chemistry students for one post of Summer Intern under SSR scheme of SERB project. The details of the internship are given below: Internship Duration Monthly Emolument Principal Investigator : Dr. M. Senthilkumar, Department of Chemistry, NIT Kurukshetra. Scholarship of Rs. 5,000/- per month Basic Qualifications Application Procedure : Interested candidate should send their application in the prescribed Two months (June-July, 2025) Date: Institute/University with at least 55% marks or at least 6.0/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CP)) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). Preference will be given to MSc 1st year candidates having basic knowledge in inorganic/organic chemistry. Summer Intern (SSR-SRB) 28 years Similar cases. Dean, format, and a signed copy of the educational qualifications certificate The position is purely on a temporary basis and will be governed by the administrative rules and conditions of Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Kurukshetra. Candidates, before appearing for the interview, shall ensure that they are eligible for the position they intend to apply. The candidate should have good chemistry skills and technical writing skills. and a statement of interest must be sent to Dr. M. Senthilkumar (PI) through e-mail to msenthil@nitkkr.ac.in on or before 26h May 2024. The intern duration is for a maximum of 2 months. The interview will be conducted offlinelonline. No TAIDA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. 6. Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate (s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. The applicant wil be responsibile for the authenticity of information, other documents and photographs submitted. The interview schedule will be notified to the shortlisted candidates by email soon after the last date of application. The appointment will be contractual in nature and as per the Institute's terms and conditions for The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason PI, Project Project CRG/2022/006324